Five years ago, when I firstaddressed this Assembly, the cold war had only just ended. Now, together, we are making that historic transition. Behind us, we leave a century full of humanity's capacity                for the worst and its genius for the best.
The information age is chipping away at barriers that once kept people locked in. Science is unravelling Mysteries in the tiniest of human genes and in the vast cosmos. Never in the course of human history have we had a greater opportunity to make our people healthier, wiser and protect our planet.
People fear change when they feel its burdens but not its benefits. We are all vulnerable to rogue States and to an unholy axis of terrorists, drug traffickers and international criminals.
Nations have begun to put that strategy in place through a new network of institutions andarrangements, with distinct missions, but a common purpose. We see this strategy taking shape on every continent.
NATO and its partners are setting the international ground rules for the twenty-first century. NATO's Partnership for Peace and its partnerships with Russia and Ukraine are key to this.
The United Nations must play a leading role in filling in the fault lines of the new global era. For 50 years the United Nations has helped prevent world war and nuclear holocaust. Unfortunately, conflicts between nations, and within nations, continue.
From 1945 until today, they have cost 20 million lives. Just since the end of the cold war, each year there have been more than 30 armed conflicts in which more than 1,000 people have lost their lives.
The United Nations is keeping the peace in 16 countries, often in partnership with regional organizations such as NATO. The United Nations record of service has left a legacy of sacrifice. The world is poorer for their passing.
The U.N. is keeping the peace in 16 countries, often in partnership with regional organizations. The United Nations cannot build nations, but it can help them build themselves. The Security Council will hold a meeting this week to discuss peacekeeping.
This week the Security Council will hold an unprecedented ministerial meeting on African security. It will highlight the role the U.S. can and should play in preventing conflict on a continent where progress towards democracy and development is occurring.
Two years ago I called upon all the members of thisAssembly to join in the fight against these forces. ug syndicates drain up to $750 billion a year from legitimate economies. These groups threaten to undermine confidence in the fragile new democracies and market economies that so many of you are working so hard to see endure.
The spread of these global criminal syndicates has made all the more urgent our common quest toeliminate weapons of mass destruction. We cannot allow them to fall into or remain in the wrong hands. The United Nations must lead, and it has led - from the United Nations Special Commission in Iraq to the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) is the longest-sought, hardest-fought prize in the history of arms control. It will help prevent the nuclear Powers from developing more advanced and dangerous weapons.
Human rights have become a reality for more people than ever, from Asia to Africa, from Europe to the Americas. In a world that links rich and poor, North and South, city and countryside in anelectronic network of shared images in real time, the more people who do not enjoy them will demand them.
The United Nations must be prepared to respond - not only by setting standards but by implementing them. To punish those responsible for crimes against humanity, we must maintain our strong support for the United Nations war-crime tribunals and truth commissions.
The United States welcomes the Secretary General's efforts to strengthen the role of human rights within the United Nations system. We will work hard to make sure that Mary Robinson has the support she needs to carry out her mandate. The U.N. has a special responsibility to ensure that as the global economy creates greater wealth, it does not produce growing disparities.
Tens of millions lack the education, the training and the skills they need to make the most of their God-givenabilities. The United Nations must focus even more on shifting resources from handouts to "hand ups"
The United Nations must continue to lead in ensuring that today's progress does not come at tomorrow's expense. Innovative partnerships with the private sector, non-governmental organizations and international financial institutions can leverage its effectiveness.
Last week Ted Turner made a remarkable donation to strengthen the United Nations development and humanitarian programmes. His gesture highlights the potential for partnership between the U.N. and the private sector. I hope more will follow his lead.
The United States was a founder of the                United Nations. We are proud to be its host. We believe                in its ideals. We continue to be, as we have been, its largest contributor. The U.S. is committed to seeing theipientUnited Nations succeed in the twenty-first century.
U.S. mmitment to the United Nations and to America's role within it. At the same time, we look to Member States to adopt a more equitable scale of assessments. We also strongly support expanding the Security Council to give more countries avoice.
A new century in a new millennium is upon us. We are building the necessary networks of cooperation. The great question is whether we have the vision and the heart necessary to imagine a future that is different from the past.