U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says the world needs to move from detente to cooperation. New realities have not yet overcome old patterns of thought and action, he says.
New realities have not yet overcome old patterns of thought and action. Traditional concepts of national sovereignty, social struggle and the relation between the old and the new nations too often guide our course.
The world has dealt with local conflicts as if they were perpetually manageable. We have permitted too many of the underlying causes to fester unattended, until the parties believed that their only recourse was war.
The world has dealt with the economy as if its constant advance were inexorable. Nuclear catastrophe looms more plausible, whether through design or miscalculation, accident, theft or blackmail.
The delicate structure of international cooperation can hardly survive, and certainly cannot be strengthened, if it is continually subjected to the shocks of political conflict, war and economic crisis. Continued reliance on old slogans and traditional rivalries will lead us towards a world ever more torn between rich and poor.
The building of a cooperative world is beyond the grasp of any one nation. An interdependent world requires not merely the resources but the vision and creativity of us all. Nations cannot simultaneously confront and cooperate with one another.
We will not solve these problems during this session, or during any one session, of the General Assembly, but we must at least begin to remedy problems, not just manage them.
Peace is a process, not a condition. Attempts to resolve all issues at one time are a certain prescription for stagnation. The world community can help resolve chronic conflicts, but exaggerated expectations will prevent essential accommodation among the parties.
This Assembly can help or hinder the negotiating process. It can offer the parties an excuse to escape reality or sturdy support in search of a compromise. The legacy of hatred and suffering have begun to yield however haltingly to the process of negotiation.
The art of negotiation is to set goals that can be achieved at a given time and to reach them with determination. The common goal of peace surely is broad enough to embrace all these aspirations.
The Members of this body, both collectively and individually, have a solemn responsibility to encourage and support the parties in the Middle East. The United States applauds their indispensable role, as well as the outstanding contribution of SecretaryGeneral Waldheim in the cause of peace.
U.S. reaffirm today that we are determined to press forward with these efforts. We will work closely with the parties and we will cooperate with all interested countries within the framework of the Geneve Conference.
The United States is prepared to play an even more active role now than in the past in helping the parties find a solution to the centuries old problem of Cyprus. Third parties should not be asked to produce miraculous outcomes not anchored in reality.
The United States is already making a major contribution to help relieve the human suffering of the people of Cyprus. The world has grown so accustomed to the existence of nuclear weapons that it assumes they will never be used.
Nuclear explosive technology threatens to put nuclear explosive technology at the disposal of an increasing number of other countries. No nation can be indifferent to the spread of nuclear technology; every nation's security is directly affected.
The challenge before the world is to realize the peaceful benefits of nuclear technology without contributing to the growth of nuclear weapons or to the number of States possessing them. The United States has no higher priority than controlling and reducing the levels of nuclear arms.
Plutonium is an essential ingredient of nuclear explosives. The amount of plutonium generated by peaceful nuclear reactors will be multiplied many times. Sales of these materials can no longer be treated by anyone as a purely commercial competitive enterprise.
The United States will urge IAEA to draft an international convention for enhancing physical security against theft or diversion of nuclear material. Such a convention should set forth specific standards and techniques for protecting materials while in use, storage arid transfer.
The Treaty on the NonProliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII), annex], which this Assembly has endorsed, warrants continuing support. The Treaty contains not only a broad commitment to limit the spread of nuclear explosives but specific obligations to accept and implement IAEA safeguards.
Economic history of the postwar period has been one of sustained growth, for developing as well as developed nations. The increasingly open and cooperation global economic system that we have come to take for granted is now under unprecedented attack.
Early warning signs of a major economic crisis are evident. Rates of inflation unprecedented in the past quarter century are sweeping developing and developed nations alike. And profound questions have arisen about meeting man's most fundamental needs for energy and food.
Oil producers seek a better life for their peoples. The developing nations face the disintegration of the results of decades of striving for development. The developed nations find the industrial civilization built over centuries in jeopardy.
The United States is working closely with several oil producers to help diversify their economies. We welcome a greater role for the oil producers in the management of international economic institutions.
The world cannot sustain even the present level of prices, much less continuing increases. The prices of other commodities will inevitably rise in a never-ending inflationary spiral. Many nations will not be able to withstand the pace, and the poorer could be overwhelmed.
The high cost of oil is not the result of economic factors, of an actual shortage of capacity or of the free play of supply and demand. Rather it is caused by deliberate decisions to restrict production and maintain an artificial price level.
It cannot be in the interest of any nation to magnify the despair of the least developed, which are uniquely vulnerable to exorbitant prices and have no recourse .but to pay. At present rates of population growth, world food product will outpace population growth.
At present rates of population growth, world food production must double by the end of this century. An adequate diet for all would require that we triple world production. The United States is prepared to join with all nations at the World Food Conference in Rome.
The U.S. will increase the value of our own food aid shipments to countries in need. We make this commitment despite great pressures on our economy. All of us here have a common obligation to prevent the po
The hopes of every nation for a life of peace and plenty rest on an effective international resolution of the crises of inflation, fuel and food. We support the United Nations efforts in the fields of international law and human rights.
The United States considers the World Population Conference, held last month, the World Food Conference to be held a month from now and the continuing Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea of fundamental importance to our common future. The United States will make specific proposals for the United Nations to initiate a major international effort to prohibit torture.
Nations must decide what contribution it is finally p. ed Nations Disaster Relief Coordinator. It is no longer possible to imagine that conflicts, weapons and recession will not spread. The needs of the poor will not be met by slogans.
The search for peace cannot be conducted on the basis of confrontation. The global economy will not be met by new restrictions. So each nation must ask what it is finally prepared to make to the common good.
"We go out to meet it.  and yet notwithstanding go out and meet it". "We are not afraid of it. We are not scared of it." "We have to face it"