I would like to talk about the pursuit of peace in an imperfect world. War and conflict have been with us since the beginning of civilization. The advance of modern weaponry led to death on a staggering scale. It was that killing that prompted the founders of this body to build an institution focused not just on ending one war, but on averting others.
A lasting peace depends upon a sense of justice and opportunity. It depends upon struggle and sacrifice. Peace is hard, but our people demand it. The United Nations helped avert a third world war.
U.S. President Barack Obama: Peace is hard, but our people demand it. Obama: At the end of this year, America’s military operation in Iraq will be over.
When Obama took office, roughly 180,000 Americans were serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. By the end of this year, that number will be cut in half, and it will continue to decline.
Ten years ago, there was an open wound and twisted steel; a broken heart in the centre of New York. Today, as a new tower is rising at Ground Zero, it symbolizes New York’s renewal, even as Al-Qaida is under more pressure than ever before.
This year has been a time of extraordinary transformation. More nations have stepped forward to maintain international peace and security. One year ago, the prospect of a successful referendum in South Sudan was in doubt.
One year ago, the people of Côte d’Ivoire approached a landmark election. When the incumbent lost and refused to respect the results, the world refused to look the other way. The Security Council, led by the United States and Nigeria, came together to support the will of the people.
The people of Tunisia are preparing for elections that will move them one step closer to democracy. One year ago, Egypt had known one President for nearly 30 years. For 18 days, the eyes of the world were glued to Tahrir Square.
One year ago, the people of Libya were ruled by the world’s longest-serving dictator. But faced with bullets and bombs and a dictator who threatened tohunt them down like rats, they showed relentlessbravery.
NATO-led coalition halted Al-Qadhafi’s forces in their tracks. Forty-two years of                 tyranny were ended in six months. The leaders of a new Libya took their                 rightful place beside us.
This has been a remarkable year. The humiliating grip of corruption and tyranny is being pried open. Youth are delivering a powerfulrebuke to dictatorship. But let us remember: Peace is hard. Prosperity comes slowly.
The Syrian people have shown dignity, courage and courage in their pursuit of justice. The question for us is clear: Will we stand with the Syrian people or with their oppressors?
The U.S. has imposed strong sanctions on Syria’s leaders. We supported a transfer of power that would be responsive to the Syrian people. There is no excuse for inaction. Now is the time for the Security Council to sanction the Syrian regime.
U.S. supports Yemen's aspirations and hopes for a peaceful transition of power. America is a close friend of Bahrain and will continue to call on the Government and the main opposition bloc to pursue a peaceful dialogue.
America does not expect to agree with every party or person who expresses themselves politically, but we will always stand up for the universal rights. Those rights depend on elections that are free and fair, governance that istransparent and accountable, respect for the rights of women and minorities.
One year ago, I called for an independent Palestine. I believed then, and I believe now, that the Palestinian people deserve a State of their own. But I also said that a genuine peace can be realized only between the Israelis and the Palestinians. One year later, despite extensive efforts by America and others, the parties have not bridged their differences.
Despite extensive efforts by America and others, the parties have not bridged their differences. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians who must live side by side. I am convinced that there is no shortcut to the end of the conflict.
It is the Israelis and Palestinians who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them. Ultimately, peace depends upon compromise among people who must live together. That is the lesson of Northern Ireland and the Sudan.
America's commitment to Israel's security is unshakeable, says President Obama. Any lasting peace must acknowledge the real security concerns that Israel faces every day, he adds.
Israel, a small country of less than 8 million people, looks out at a world where leaders of much larger nations threaten to wipe it off of the map. Israel’s citizens have been killed by rockets fired at their houses and suicide bombs on their buses. Israel deserves recognition. It deserves normal relations with its neighbours.
Friends of Israel must recognize the need to pursue a two-State solution with a secure Israel next to an independent Palestine. The measure of our actions must always be whether they advance the right of Israeli and Palestinian children to live lives of peace and security.
Peace is not just the absence of war, it is also security, dignity and opportunity. To lift the spectre of mass destruction, we must pursue the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons.
Nations have taken steps to secure nuclear material from terrorists and smugglers. The New START Treaty between the U.S. and Russia will cut arsenals. America will continue to work for a ban on the testing of nuclear weapons.
The Iranian Government cannot demonstrate that its programme is peaceful. It has not met its obligations and rejects offers that would provide it with peaceful nuclear power. North Korea has yet to take concrete steps towards abandoning its weapons.
Three years ago, we were confronted with the worst financial crisis in eight decades. Today, we confront the challenges that have followed on the heels of that crisis. Our fates are interconnected.
In a global economy, nations will rise or fall together. We acted together to avert a depression in 2009. We must take urgent and coordinated action once more.
Drought and conflict have brought famine to the Horn of Africa. To combat poverty, we must act on the belief that freedom from want is a human right. We will work with emerging economies that have rebounded strongly.
President Obama: "Our common humanity is at stake. Let us show that the life of a child in Somalia is as precious as any other" "To stop disease that spreads across borders, we must strengthen our system of public health," he says.
We must not put off action that climate change demands. We have to tap the power of science to save those resources that are scarce. We must harness the power of open societies and open economies. No country can afford the corruption that plagues the world.
No country can realize its potential if half its population cannot reach theirs. No country can afford the corruption that plagues the world like a cancer. Together, we must harness the power of open societies and open economies.
Heads of governments from all over the world gather in London for the G20 summit. The leaders will discuss how to tackle the challenges facing women and girls in their countries.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: Peace is hard, but we know that it is possible. Ban: Peace defined by hopes and not by fears, and a peace that will last. President Truman said the United Nations is an expression of man's aspirations.
together, let us be resolved to see that it is defined by our hopes and not by our fears. is possible. Let us make peace — but a peace, most importantly, that will last.