The President of the United Nations delivers his first speech to the UN General Assembly. He congratulates Mr. Lusaka on his election as President. He also speaks in support of the two goals that led to the formation of the UN.
I believe that future is far nearer than most of us would dare to hope. end to war and to the repression of the human spirit. We will resolve what divides us only if we remember how much more unites us.
"Up until 200 years ago, there were relatively few people in the world," he wrote. "All human societies were poor. Disease and early death dominated most people's lives"
The U.S. ds in human history can serve as catalysts for an era of world peace and unimagined human freedom and dignity, he says.
The secret of a progressive new world is to take advantage of the creativity of the human spirit, Obama says. Tomorrow, at the International Monetary Fund, Obama will address this question more fully.
U.S. has moved to strengthen ties with old allies and new friends. We are doing to help avoid the regional conflicts that could contain the seeds of world conflagration. The status of our efforts with the Soviet Union to reduce the levels of arms.
U.S. fforts with the Soviet Union to reduce the levels of arms. U.N. Charter states two overriding goals: "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind"
We can never look at anyone's freedom as a bargaining chip in world politics. Our hope is for a time when all the people of the world can enjoy the blessings of personal liberty.
The treatment of peace groups may be a litmus test of a Government's true desire for peace. The North Atlantic alliance has guaranteed the peace in Europe. In both Europe and Asia, our alliances have been the vehicle for a great reconciliation.
The United States is proud of its association with all those countries that share our commitment to freedom, human rights, the rule of law—and international peace. The people of the United States will remain faithful to their commitments.
The United States is ready to be the friend of any country that is a friend to us and a friend of peace. The development of ties between the United States and China shows our willingness to improve relations.
The United States welcomes diversity and peaceful competition. We are not ideologically rigid; we do have principles and we will stand by them. Since 1946, the United States has provided over $115 billion in economic aid.
Since 1946, the U.S. has provided over $115 billion in economic aid to developing countries. Today it provides about one third of the nearly $90 billion in financial resources, public and private, that flows to the developing world.
We are engaged in diplomacy to resolve conflicts in southern Africa. Mozambique and South Africa have reached a historic accord on non-aggression and co-operation. South Africa and Angola have agreed on a disengagement of forces from Angola. The groundwork has been laid for the independence of Namibia.
South Africa and Angola have agreed on a disengagement of forces from Angola, and the groundwork has been laid for the independence of Namibia. The United States considers it a moral imperative that South Africa's racial policies evolve peacefully but decisively.
El Salvador is the best proof that the key to peace lies in a political solution. We call upon Nicaragua to abandon its policies of subversion and militarism. We consider ourselves a full partner in the quest for peace.
The tragedy of Lebanon has not ended. Only last week, a despicable act of barbarism by some who are unfit to associate with humankind reminded us once again that Lebanon continues to suffer. We consider ourselves a full partner in the quest for peace.
In 1983 we helped Israel and Lebanon reach an agreement that could have led to the full withdrawal of Israeli forces. This agreement was blocked, and the long agony of the Lebanese continues. Thousands of people are still kept from their homes by continued violence and are refugees in their own country. The once-flourishing economy of Lebanon is near collapse.
The lesson of experience is that negotiations work. The peace treaty between Israel and Egypt brought about the peaceful return of the Sinai. The time is bound to come when the same wisdom and courage will be applied, with success, to reach peace.
The U.S. is similarly engaged in peace diplomacy as an active player or a strong supporter, he said. 7. The United States has backed the efforts of the Association of South-East Asian Nations to mobilize international support for a peaceful resolution of the Cambodian problem.
The U.S. has backed the confidence-building measures proposed by the Republic of Korea and by the United Nations Command at Panmunjom. The United States has been and will always be a friend of peaceful solutions.
The United States has been and will always be a friend of peaceful solutions. America has repaired its strength. We have invigorated our alliances and friendships. We are ready for constructive negotiations with the Soviet Union.
I want to speak to the General Assembly today on what the United States and the Soviet Union can accomplish together in the coming years. I set out three objectives for United States-Soviet relations.
I propose that our two countries agree to embark on periodic consultations at policy level about regional problems. We will be prepared, if the Soviets agree, to make senior experts available at regular intervals for in-depth exchanges of views. I have asked Secretary of State Shultz to explore this with Foreign Minister Gromyko.
Spheres of influence are a thing of the past. Differences between American and Soviet interests are not. I am committed to redoubling our negotiating efforts to achieve real results.
"We have agreed to upgrade our hotline communications facility, and our discussions of nuclear non-proliferation in recent years have been useful to both side," he said.
U.S. and the Soviets have agreed to upgrade our hotline communications facility. We think there are other possibilities for improving communications in this area that deserve serious exploration.
I hope we can begin these talks by the end of the year or shortly thereafter. We have reached agreements to improve our hotline, extend our 10-year economic agreement, enhance consular co-operation and explore co-ordination of search and rescue efforts at sea.
I feel particularly strongly about breaking down the barriers between the peoples of the United States and the Soviet Union. We need to extend the arms control process, to build a bigger umbrella under which it can operate. This can greatly assist step-by-step negotiations and enablify the world.
We need a fresh approach to reducing international tensions. We need a framework for arms control under which it can operate. This can greatly assist step-by-step negotiations and enable us to avoid having all our hopes or expectations ride on any single set of negotiations.
Towards this end I will suggest to the Soviet Union that we institutionalize regular ministerial or cabinet-level meetings between our two countries. We would also welcome the exchange of observers at military exercises and locations. And I propose that we find a way for Soviet experts to come to the United States nuclear-test site.
I hope that the Soviet Union will co-operate in this undertaking and reciprocate in a manner that will enable the two countries to establish the basis for verification for effective limits on underground nuclear testing.
Some may dismiss such proposals and my own optimism as simplistic American idealism. And they will point to the burdens of the modem world and to history. Well, yes, if we sit down and catalogue year by year, generation by generation, the famines, the plagues, the wars, the invasions mankind has endured, the list will grow so long. We have a moral obligation to try and try again.
"There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible. But in the end, they always fall. All through history the way of truth and love has always won"
Gandhi: "I have been convinced more than ever that human nature is much the same no matter under what clime it flourishes" Gandhi: "If you approach people with trust and affection, you would have tenfold trust"
"We have it in our power to begin the world over again," Thomas Paine said. "A new future awaits us. The time is here, the moment is now"