At this last General Assembly of the                twentieth century, we look back on a century that taught us much of what we need to know about the promise oftomorrow. We have learned that open markets create more wealth, that open societies are more just. But for all our intellectual and material advances, the tumultuous century has been deeply scarred by enduringhuman failures.
In the new millennium, will nations be divided by ethnic and religious conflicts? Will the nation-state itself be imperiled by them? Or will we keep coming closer together instead?
Will we be free of the fear of weapons of mass destruction, or forced to teach our grandchildren how to survive a nuclear, chemical or biological attack? Will globalism bring shared prosperity, or will it make the desperate of the world even more desperate? Will we use science and technology to grow the economy and protect the environment, or put it all at risk in a world dominated by a struggle over natural resources? The truth is that the twentieth century’s amazingprogress has not resolved these questions. But it has given us the tools to make the answers come out right.
I offer three resolutions for the new tumultuous millennium. First, let us wage an unrelenting battle against poverty and for shared prosperity. No part ofhumanity is left behind in the global economy.
Trade and new technologies have helped hundreds of millions to see their prospects rise. With proper investments in education, developing countries should be able to keep their best talent at home. But this promising future is far from inevitable.
We must refuse to accept a future in which one part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy, while the other lives at the knife edge of survival. We can start by remembering that open markets advance the blessings and breakthroughs we want to spread. That is why we in the                United States have worked to keep our markets openduring the recent global financial crisis.
We do not face a choice between trade and aid, but instead the challenge to make both work for people who need them. Aid should focus on what is known to work: credit for poor people starting businesses, keeping girls in school.
The most vulnerable members of the human family will hurt first and hurt most if rising temperatures devastate agriculture. Developed and developing countries alike, should take action now to halt global climate change.
AIDS is expected to kill more people and orphan                more children than all the wars of the twentieth century                combined. Each year diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and pneumonia leave millions of children without parents. Only 2 per cent of all global biomedical research is devoted to major killers in the developing world.
U.S. has come close to eradicating polio, once the scourge of children everywhere. I have asked our Congress to fund a majorincrease to finish the job. We have begun a comprehensive battle against the global AIDS epidemic. This year I am seeking another $100 million for prevention, counselling and care in Africa.
To tackle these issues, I will ask public-health experts, CEOs and foundation representatives to join me at a special White House meeting. I want to strengthen incentives for research and development, working with, not against, the private sector. The second resolution I hope we will make today is tostrengthen the capacity of the international community to stop outbreaks of mass killing.
U.N. stop ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and in Kosovo; the one that Asian and Pacific nations have now assumed in East Timor. It is easy to say “never again’, but much harder to make it so.
The way the international community responds will depend on thecapacity of countries to act. NATO acted in Kosovo, for example, to stop a vicious campaign of ethnic cleansing. The same considerations brought Nigerian troops and their partners to Sierra Leone.
I know that some are troubled that the U.S. and others cannot respond to every humanitarian catastrophe in the world. But simply because we have different interests in different parts of the world does not mean we can be indifferent to the destruction of innocents. That is proper — so long as we work together, support each other and do not abdicate our collective responsibility.
NATO is helping establish an international coalition against genocide. The coalition aims to stop the flow of money and arms to those who commit crimes against humanity. There is a critical need for countries emergingfrom conflict to build police institutions.
NATO's actions followed a clear consensus that the atrocities committed by Serb forces were unacceptable. Had we chosen to do nothing in the face of this brutality, I do not believe we would havestrengthened the United Nations.
After collapse of Soviet Union, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine courageously chose to give up their nuclear weapons. America and Russia have moved forward with substantial arms reductions. Brazil has joined the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The U.S. has banned chemical weapons from the Earth, though we must implement that commitment fully and gain universal coverage. One hundred and fifty-two nations have signed the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
We must stop the spread of nuclear weapons, materials and expertise at the source. Since 1992, we have worked with Russia and the other nations of the formerSoviet Union to do that. We are expanding that effort because challenges remain.
We must ease the suffering of the people of Iraq, but we cannot allow the Government of Iraq to flout 40 United Nations Security Council resolutions. We must also keep deadlyweapons away from terrorist groups. The possibility that terrorists will threaten us with weapons of mass destruction can be met with neither panic norcomplacency.
The U.S. has a responsibility to equip the United Nations with the resources it needs to be effective, Obama says. The United States could have turned away from the opportunities and dangers of the world, but has tried to be engaged, involved and active.
U.S. has tried to be a force for peace in the world, Obama says. He says America feels more threatened by the potential weakness of the world's leading nations than by their strength.
I want to make sure that, 20 or 50 or 100 years from now,people everywhere will still believe that about our United Nations. We have sought to keep our markets open because we believe a strong world economy benefits our workers and businesses.
Humanity finally can live up to its name, says U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. "Our desire to create will overwhelm our capacity to destroy," he says.