In moments of tumultuous historical change, leaders must become architects of a better world. I want to thank Secretary-General Annan for mobilizing the support of this institution. I also want tothank the representatives of the 126 countries that have offered assistance in our relief efforts.
Sixty years ago, the United States joined with visionarybuilders from over 50 countries to create the United Nations. We built an institution that has helped to support a peaceful world order for six decades. Today, with the end of the cold war and the rise of globalization, we must embrace the challenge of building for the future.
The first purpose of the United Nations is to help maintain international peace and security. The second purpose is to develop friendly relations among nations, based on equal rights and the self-determination of all peoples. In 1945, a life ofliberty and dignity was more an aspiration than a reality.
In 1945, a life of liberty and dignity was more an aspiration than a reality for a majority of the world’s people. Today, more nations than ever have enshrined the Principles of democracy and human rights.
The United Nations is to be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of common ends. Nocause, no movement and no grievance can justify theintentional killing of innocent civilians and non-combatants. That is unacceptable by any moral standard.
It is time for every Member of the U.S. to outlaw acts of international terrorism, he says. The United States is committed to the Millennium Development Goals, he adds.
President Bush: U.S. will eliminate all tariffs and subsidies that distort free trade. U.N. must work together to support democracy in a world of expanding liberty, Bush says.
The path to democracy is long and imperfect and different for                every nation. But the principles of democracy areuniversal, as is the desire for them. The United Nations must launch a lasting revolution of reform, he says.
The United Nations must launch a lasting revolution of reform, says U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. A Peacebuilding Commission should plan for post-conflict missions before crises erupt, he says.
The United Nations needs to be better prepared to help countries rebuild in the aftermath of conflict. The Human Rights Council must have the moral authority to condemn allviolators of human rights, even those that sit among us.
The United Nations must stand for integrity and live by the high standards it sets for others. For the United Nations to promote democracy more legitimately, we mustincrease the transparency and the accountability of this institution.
The United States is open to expanding the Security Council. The U.S. has long supported a permanent seat for Japan. Developing countries deserve greater representation on that body. The Security Council must be able to deal with great challenges.
Questions about Iran’s nuclear activities remain unanswered, despite repeated efforts by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Iran should return to the negotiations with the European Union three and abandon forever its plans for a nuclear-weapons capability.
Let us recommit ourselves toprincipled action. Let us embrace the same spirit of creation that moved the builders and leaders of 1945. And let us reform this great institution to meet the challenges of a new era.