Ambassador Amerasinghe is a diplomat of great, international stature. He has provided indispensable leadership to the crucial negotiations on the law of the sea.
The United Nations has survived-and helped to manage-30 years of vast change in the international system. The most important challenge for this Organization still lies ahead: to vindicate mankind's positive and nobler goals.
Nations have taken decisions on a bloc or regional basis, or by rigid ideologies, before even listening to the debate in these halls. On many issues positions have been predetermined by prior conferences containing more than half the membership of the United Nations.
More than ever, this is a time for statecraft and restraint, for persistence but also for daring in the pursuit of peace and justice. The doctrines of perpetual strife produce only bloodshed and bitterness. Appeals to hatred-  whether on the basis of race or class or color or nationality or ideology- will in the end rebound.
The United States believes that this thirty-First session of the General Assembly must free itself of the ideological and confrontational tactics that marked some of its predecessors and dedicate itself to a program of common action. We will offer concrete proposals.
The United States comes to the General Assembly prepared to work co-operatively on programs of common action. The age of the United Nations has also been an age of frequent conflict. We have been spared a third world war, but we cannot assume that this condition will prevail forever.
The United States is proud of its historical friendships in the Western Hemisphere. The common efforts of the industrial democracies are not directed at exclusive ends, but as a bridge to a more secure and co-operative international system.
The U.S. is proud of its historical friendships in the Western Hemisphere. We have a unique advantage in this Hemisphere: the great dialog between the developed and developing nations can find its most creative solution.
The U.S. believes that the future of mankind requires coexistence with the Soviet Union. We will insist that restraint be reciprocal, not just in bilateral relations, but around the globe. There can be no selective detente.
Peace requires a balance of strategic power. There can be no selective detente. We will maintain our defenses and our vigilance. But we know also that tough rhetoric is not strength.
The United States welcomes the recent progress that has been made in curtailing nuclear-weapons testing and establishing a regime for peaceful nuclear explosions for the first time.
We have been disturbed by the continuing accumulation of Soviet armaments and by recent instances of military intervention to tip the scales in distant continents. We have noted crude attempts to distort the purposes of peaceful diplomacy and to impede hopeful progress towards peaceful solutions.
The United States and the People's Republic of China came together out of necessity and a mutual belief that the world should remain free of military blackmail. The United States is committed to strengthen the bonds between us and to proceed towards the normalization of our relations.
We will keep Chinese interests in mind on all international issues. We will do our utmost to take account of them. There must be similar sensitivity to our views and concerns.
The U.S. has played, and is prepared to continue to play, an active role in the search for peace in many areas -southern Africa, the Middle East, Korea and Cyprus.
The United States has vigorously sought to help the parties concerned speed up the process towards Namibian independence. The United States favors the following elements: the independence of Namibia within a fixed, short time-limit.
We pledge our continued solicitude for the independence of Namibia so that it may, in the end, be a proud achievement of this Organization and a symbol of international co-operation.
The African Presidents, in calling for immediate negotiations, have shown that, they are prepared to seize this opportunity. The Government of the United Kingdom has shown its high sense of responsibility and concern for the rapid and just independence of Rhodesia. That is in itself an historic break from the past.
The people of Rhodesia and the neighboring States now face a supreme challenge. Their ability to work together and their capacity to unify will be tested in the months ahead as never before.
The United States wants no special position or sphere of influence in Africa. The leadership and the future of an independent Zimbabwe, as for the rest of Africa, are for Africans to decide. We respect African unity.
The United States wants no special position or sphere of influence in Africa. The rivalry and interference of non-African Powers would make a mockery of Africa's hard-won struggle for independence from foreign domination.
The U.S. has been actively engaged in the search for peace in the Middle East. There have been three agreements that lessen the danger of war. As a result, we are closer to peace than at any time in a generation.
The United States remains committed to help the parties reach a settlement. The decision before us now is how the next phase of negotiations should be launched. The groundwork that has been laid represents an historic opportunity.
The U.S. will do all it can to assure that by the time this Assembly meets next year it will be possible to report significant progress towards a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
The confrontation between North and South Korea remains a threat to international peace and stability. The vital interests of world Powers intersect in Korea: conflict there inevitably threatens wider war. We are willing to improve relations with North Korea, provided that its allies are ready to take similar steps towards the Republic of Korea.
Last fall the United States proposed a conference including all the parties most directly concerned. Preliminary talks between North and South Korea, including discussions on the venue and scope of the conference, could start immediately. The United States would support a phased approach.
Preliminary talks between North and South Korea could start immediately. The United States and the People's Republic of China could participate as observers or in an advisory role.
Domestic pressures, nationalistic objectives, and international rivalries have combined to block the parties from taking even the most elementary steps towards a solution. On those few occasions when representatives of the two Cypriot communities have come together, they have fallen into inconclusive procedural disputes.
The United States is ready to assist in restoring momentum to the negotiating process. We believe that agreeing to a set of principles might help the parties to resume negotiations. A settlement should preserve the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cyprus.
Two Cypriot communities can live in freedom and have a large voice in their own affairs. Security arrangements should be agreed upon that would permit the withdrawal of foreign military forces.
 industrial democracies have sometimes been more willing to pay lip service to the challenge of development than to match rhetoric with real resources. The countries with non-market economies are quite prepared to undertake verbal assaults, but their performance is in inverse ratio to their rhetoric.
Developing nations have made demands for change that are as confrontational as they are unrealistic. They sometimes speak of new economic orders as if growth were a quick fix. Neither side can achieve its aims at the expense of the other.
We have taken steps to protect the economic security of developing nations against cyclical financial disaster. The newly expanded compensatory finance facility of the International Monetary Fund has disbursed over $2 billion to developing nations in this year alone. World-wide food aid has been expanded.
The United States has put forward three basic principles, which we shall support with funds aid talent. The principles are to train individuals who can identify, select and manage the future technology of the developing world; to build both national and international institutions to create indigenous technology; and to spur the private sector.
World conference on science and technology for development, now scheduled for 1979, to meet in this country. We are making several new proposals. We will seek to help nations facing severe debt burdens.
We will seek to help nations facing severe debt burdens. We will advance new ideas for expanded co-operation in energy. The U.N. has a unique capacity to address these global concerns and thus improve man's odds against nature.
We urge this body to take the lead in strengthening international co-operation to prevent and alleviate natural calamity. No nation can accomplish this alone; no group of nations can achieve it through confrontation. But together there is a chance for major progress-and in our generation it is possible.
Many nations have the potential to build nuclear weapons. Threats to use nuclear weapons could become a recurrent feature of local conflicts. And there will be growing dangers of accidents, blackmail and nuclear terrorism.
Since 1973 energy crisis, both developed and developing nations have seen in nuclear energy a means of lowering the cost of electricity. Some see the acquisition and expansion of nuclear power as symbols of enhanced national prestige.
The future of this planet depends more directly upon what this generation can do or fails to do. We must move on the following three broad fronts. First, international safeguards must be strengthened and strictly enforced.
We must continue our efforts to forge international restraints against the acquisition or transfer of reprocessing facilities and of enrichment facilities which produce highly enriched uranium. One of the principal incentives for seeking sensitive technology is the fear that essential non-sensitive materials will not be made available on a reliable basis.
The negotiations which have just recessed in New York represent one of the most important, complex and ambitious diplomatic undertakings in history. Agreement exists on key concepts: a 12-mile territorial sea; free passage over and through straits; a 200-mile economic zone.
In many fields we have replaced ideological debates with serious efforts to find concrete solutions. There is growing consensus that the outstanding problems must be solved at the next session. But there is hardly room for complacency.
Half of the mining sites would be reserved for the International Authority. Half could be developed by individual nations and their nationals on the basis of technical capacity.
The United States has an interest in the progressive development of international law, stable order and global co-operation. We are prepared to make significant sacrifices for this- but these sacrifices cannot go beyond equitable bounds. If attempts are made to compel concessions which exceed those limits, unilateralism will become inevitable.
In the year since I last addressed this body there have been 11 hijackings, 19 kidnappings, 42 armed attacks and 112 bombings perpetrated by international terrorists. Over 70 people have lost their lives and over 200 have been injured. Criminal acts against humanity, whatever the professed objective, cannot be excused by.
More stringent steps must be taken now to deny skyjackers and terrorists a safe haven. Additional measures are required to protect passengers in both transit and terminal areas, as well as in flight.
The United States will do everything within its power to work co-operatively in the United Nations and in other international bodies. If multilateral efforts are blocked, the U.S. will be forced to act through its own legislative processes.
Human rights are in jeopardy over most of the globe. Arbitrary arrest, denial of fundamental procedural rights, slave labor, the stifling of freedom of religion, racial injustice, political repression, the use of torture, and restraints on communications and expression are far too prevalent.
The principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are clear debates of this body and in other forums. Flagrant and consistent deprivation of human rights is no less grave in one country or one social system than in another. Nor is it more acceptable when practiced upon members of the same race than when inflicted by one race upon another.
The United States pledges its firm support to these efforts. The challenge to statesmanship in this generation is to advance from the management of crises to the building of a stable and just international order.
Tesmanship in this generation is to advance from the management of crises to the building of a stable and just international order. Order will come in one of two ways: through its imposition by the strong and the ruthless or by the wise and far-sighted use of international institutions.
Today there is no single crisis to conquer. Instead, a persisting challenge of staggering complexity. The need to create a universal community based on co-operation, peace and justice.