In its fifty-first year, the United Nations has not yet realized all its founders’ aspirations. But the ideals of peace, freedom, tolerance and prosperity now touch more people in more nations than ever before. The challenge before us is to seize the opportunity.
This week and in this place, we take a giant step forward. By overwhelming global consensus, we will make a solemn commitment to end all nuclear tests for all time.
 Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty will help prevent nuclear Powers from developing more advanced and dangerous weapons. Treaty will limit the ability of other States to acquire such devices themselves.
Treaty will create an international norm against nuclear testing even before it enters into force. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakstan are giving up the nuclear weapons left on their land after the Soviet Union dissolved.
Half the world’s land area is nuclear free by an international agreement. The U.S. and other nuclear-weapon States have embraced the South Pacific and African nuclear-free zones.
The U.S. has six priority goals to further lift the threat of nuclear weapons destruction and to limit their dangerous spread. First, we must protect our people from chemical attack and make it harder for rogue States and terrorists to brandish poison gas.
We must reduce the risk that an outlaw state or organization could build a nuclear device by negotiating a treaty to freeze the production of fissilematerials for use in nuclear weapons. The United States, Russia, France and the United Kingdom already have halted production of these materials for weapons.
We must reinforce our efforts against the spread of nuclear weapons. We should give the International Atomic Energy Agency a stronger role. We must end the carnage caused byanti-personnel landmines.
President Obama calls for a worldwide ban on the use, stockpiling, and production of anti-personnel landmines. Landmines kill and injure more than 25,000 people a year.
President Kennedy’s vision exceeded the possibilities of his time, but his words speak to us still. The Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty is the longest-sought, hardest-fought prize in arms control history.
In the Americas, every nation but one has raised freedom’s flag. In Central Europe, in Russia, Ukraine and the other new independent States, the forces of reform have earned all our respect.
The UN Security Council has called for an end to the use of nuclear weapons in the Middle East. The UN has also called for a halt to all nuclear activity in the Pacific Ocean.
Some Americans, in their longing to be free of the world’s problems, ignore what the United Nations has done. They ignore our own interdependence with                all of you in charting a better future.
The United States will be the largest financial contributor to the United Nations for the 50th year in a row. The United States is committed to paying off its accumulated obligations to the U.N.
Last year I asked the nations assembled here to commit to a goal of zero tolerance for aggression, terrorism and lawless behaviour. Frankly, we have not done that yet. Real zero tolerance requires us to isolate states that refuse to play by the rules we have all accepted for civilized behaviour.
The U.S. is pursuing a three-part strategy against terrorists, says Obama. He says the country is working more closely than ever with like-minded nations. Mr Obama also wants to make airports and theaeroplanes that link us all together even safer.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has called for a no-sanctuary pledge for terrorists and criminals. He also called on countries to criminalize the use of explosives in terrorist attacks. The United States will do more to reduce demand and take illegal drugs off the market.
Next week I will target more than $100-million worth of defence equipment, services and training to Mexico, Colombia and other South American and Caribbean countries. I ask every nation that exports the chemicals needed to make illicit drugs to create an informal group.
A small lump of plutonium is enough to build a nuclearbomb. We saw it when our friends in Japan were subject to the murderous power of a small vial ofarin gas unleashed in the Tokyo subway. Let us work harder than ever to lift the nuclear backdrop that has darkened the world’s stage for too long.
Let us make these solemn tasks our                common obligation, our common commitment. If we do, then together we will enter the twenty-first centurymarching towards a better, safer world.