Last week, America and the world marked the fifth anniversary of the attacks that filled another September morning with death and suffering. On that terrible day, extremists killed nearly 3,000 innocent people, including citizens of dozens of nations represented right here in this Hall.
Five years ago, I stood at this rostrum and called on the community of nations to defend civilization and build a more hopeful future. This is still the great challenge of our time. It is the calling of our generation.
“Members of the human family [are] the foundation of freedom,                 justice and peace in the world” “The words of the Universal Declaration are as                 true today as they were when they were written”
Some of the changes in the Middle East have been dramatic, and we see the results in this Hall. Five years ago, Iraq’s seat in this body was. held by a dictator who killed his citizens, invaded his. neighours and showed his contempt for the world by.defying more than a dozen Security Council resolutions.
More than 50 million people have been given a voice in this Hall for the first time in decades. Some of the changes in the Middle East are happening gradually, but they are real. Algeria has held its first competitive presidential election, and the military remained neutral.
Some have argued that the democratic changes in the Middle East are destabilizing the region. This argument rests on a false assumption: that the region was stable to begin with. For decades, millions of men and women have been trapped in oppression and hopelessness.
Young people in the Middle East face a dismal choice every day, says Al-Shabaab. The group calls on civilized nations to support those in the region who are offering a more hopeful alternative.
We know that when people have a voice in their future they are less likely to blow themselves up in suicide attacks. We must stand with democratic leaders and moderate reformers across the broader Middle East. Extremists in your midst spread propaganda claiming that the West is engaged in a war against Islam.
My country                 desires peace. Extremists in your midst spread propaganda claiming that the West is engaged in a war  against Islam. This propaganda is false, and its purpose is to confuse you and justify acts of terror. We respect Islam, but we will protect our people from those who                 pervert Islam to sow death and destruction.
America and our coalition partners will stand with the democratic Government you have elected. We will continue to help you secure the international assistance and investment you need to create jobs and opportunity.
We respect your courage and your determination to live in peace and freedom. We will help you defeat these enemies and build a free Afghanistan that will never again oppress you or be a safe haven for terrorists.
Last year, you inspired the world when you came out into the streets to demand your independence from Syrian dominance. The U.N. has passed a good resolution that has authorized an international force to help you restore Lebanese sovereignty. For many years, Lebanon was a model of democracy and pluralism in the region.
The U.S. has called on Iran to abandon its nuclear ambitions. The U.N. has passed a clear resolution calling for Iran to meet its international obligations.
Iran must abandon its nuclear weapons ambitions, says Obama. Syria's rulers have allowed their country to become a crossroad for terrorism. Darfur's Government is turning your country into a tool of Iran, he adds.
U.S. joined with the international community to provide emergency food aid and support for an African Union peacekeeping force. The world must step forward to provide additional humanitarian aid, and we muststrengthen the African Union force.
The regime in Khartoum is stopping the deployment of this force. To increase its strength and effectiveness, NATO nations should provide logistics and other support. The world must also stand up for peace in the Holy Land.
The Palestinian people have suffered from decades of corruption and violence. Israeli citizens have endured brutal acts of terrorism and constant fear of attack. The world is waiting to see whether the Hamas Government will follow through on its promises.
The world is waiting to see whether the Hamas Government will follow through on its promises or pursue an extremist agenda. The world has sent a clear message to the leaders of Hamas: serve the Palestinian people, abandon terror, recognise Israel’s right to exist, honour agreements and work for peace.
I have directed Secretary of State Rice to lead a diplomatic effort to engage moderate leaders across the region. Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Egypt have made clear they are willing to contribute the diplomatic and financial assistance.
From Beirut to Baghdad, people are making the choice for freedom. America has made its choice: we will stand with the moderates and reformers. The United Nations was created to make that journey possible.
"We must support the dreams of good and decent people who are working to transform a troubled region," he said. "By doing so, we will advance the high ideals on which this institution was founded"