The United States and the United Nations share the deepest commitments, he said. He added: 'The American people respect the idealism that gave life to this organization'
The U.N. and the U.S. share the same commitment to human rights. They stand for the rule of law, free speech and religious tolerance.
In this young century our world needs a newdefinition of security. Our security is not merely found in spheres of influence or some balance of power. Eventually there is no safe isolation from terror networks or failed States that shelter them.
In the last year alone terrorists have attacked police stations, banks and commuter trains. Terrorists believe the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the U.S. Bill of Rights are lies to be burned and destroyed.
Svetlana Dzebisov was killed along with her son and nephew. She said, "I understand that there is evil in the world, but what have these little creatures done?"
The dictator agreed in 1991, as a condition of aceasefire, to fully comply with all Security Council resolutions. He ignored more than a decade of those resolutions. The Security Council promised serious consequences for his defiance.
A coalition of nations have established a $15 billion fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The United States has pledged $5.6 billion to the fund in three years.
America has undertaken a $15 billion effort to provide prevention and treatment in nations afflicted by AIDS. Women and children should never be exploited for pleasure or greed, anywhere on Earth.
The GeneralAssembly will consider a draft resolution sponsored by Costa Rica calling for a comprehensive ban on human cloning. I support that draft resolution and urge all Governments to affirm a basic ethical principle: no human life should ever be produced or destroyed for the benefit of another.
The U.S. is increasing aid to developing nations that expand economic freedom and invest in the education and health of their own people. Since 1996, poor countries with the heaviest debt burdens have received more than $30 billion of relief. The world must have more effective means to stabilize regions in tumultuous regions.
Group of Eight countries will train 75,000 peacekeepers from Africa. The countries of the G-8 will help that peacekeeping force with deployment and logistical needs.
The Security Council adopted a new resolution that supports an expanded African Union force to help prevent further bloodshed in Darfur. We congratulate the members of the Council on this timely and necessary action. I call on the Government of the Sudan to honour the ceasefire it signed.
Democratic institutions have taken root in modernsocieties and in traditional societies. The desire for freedom resides in every human heart, and that desire cannot be contained. Freedom is finding a way in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Members of the U.N. have a stake in the success of the world’s newest democracies. The Iraqi and Afghan peoples are on the path to democracy and freedom. The Governments that are rising will pose no threat to others.
More than 10 million Afghan citizens are now registered to vote in next month’s presidential election. The Government of Prime Minister Allawi has earned the support of every nation that believes in self-determination and desires peace.
Prime Minister Allawi has earned the support of every nation that believes in self-determination and desires peace. The U.N. and its Member nations must respond to Prime minister Allawi’s request and help build an Iraq that is secure, democratic, federal and free.
Coalition is standing beside a growing Iraqi security force. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is providing vital training to that force. More than 35 countries have contributed money and expertise to help rebuild Iraq.
President Barack Obama: "The advance of freedom always carries a cost" "The work ahead is demanding, but those difficulties will not shake our conviction that thefuture of Afghanistan and Iraq is a future of liberty"
Democratic reform isessential to resolving the Arab-Israeli conflict. Peace will not be achieved by Palestinian rulers who tolerate corruption and maintain ties to terrorist groups.
Arab states should end incitement in their own media, cut funding for terrorism, and establish normal relations with Israel. Israel should impose a settlement freeze, dismantle unauthorized unauthorizedoutposts, and end the daily humiliation of the Palestinian people. World leaders should withdraw all support from any Palestinian ruler who fails his people.
The United States will make an initial contribution to the new democracy fund. The fund would help countries lay the foundations of democracy by instituting the rule of law, independent courts, a free press, political parties and trade unions.
The U.S. will make an initial contribution to the new democracy fund. The U.N. Charter states them with clarity: “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”
I am confident that this young century will be liberty’s century. I know thecharacter of so many nations and leaders represented here today. And I have faith in the transforming power of freedom.