President Barack Obama was elected President of the U.S. on November 8. Obama will be the first sitting president of the United States since George H.W. Bush.
Three times in this century the forces of hope were victorious. But the First World War squandered their triumph when they turned inward. After the Second World War, the Allies learned the lessons of the past. They chose to create the United Nations.
Our generation has a difficult task: the cold war is                over. We must secure the peace. It falls to us to avoid the complacency that followed the First World War.
The dangers we face are less stark and more diffuse than those of the cold war, but they are still formidable. The twentieth century has proved that the forces of freedom and democracy can endure against great odds. Our job is to see that in the twenty-firstcentury these forces triumph.
Diseases likeAIDS that threaten to decimate nations, population explosion and economic decline. Global and local environmental threats that demand that sustainable development become a part of the lives of people all around the world. Drug abuse and crime and family breakdown, with all their terrible consequences.
U.S. President Barack Obama says his first duty is to his country's citizens. He says the United States will use diplomacy when it can, but force if necessary.
In every corner of the globe, ordinary citizens are striving to build their future. Promoting their cause is our generation’sgreat opportunity, and we must do it together. Acoalition for democracy is good for America.
Democracies are more likely to be stable and less likely to wage war. Promoting their cause is our generation's                great opportunity, and we must do it together.
There is always the potential for failure and often the risk of loss of life. But our people genuinely want to help their neighbours around the world. We have seen that progress can be made as well.
Hard questions will remain, and cannot be erased by some simple formula. But we should have the confidence that these efforts can succeed. We should have confidence about this. History is onour side.
The growth of cooperation between the U.S. and the Russian Federation should give us all great confidence. This is a partnership that is rooted in democracy, and it is working. After so many years of nuclear terror, our two nations are taking dramatic steps to ease tensions around the world.
Three of the four nuclear members of the former Soviet Union have agreed to remove all nuclear weapons from their soil. The United States and Russia also recognize that we must cooperate to control the emerging danger of terrorists.
The United States will advance a wide-ranging non-proliferation agenda. The U.S. will open a law enforcement training academy in Europe, where police will learn how to combat nuclear weapons trafficking.
The world has 85 million anti-personnel land-mines - one for every 50 persons on the face of the earth. Ridding the world of those often hidden weapons will help to save the lives of tens of thousands of men, women and innocent children.
NATO's first joint exercises have been conducted, helping to give Europe the chance to become a more unified continent. In Asia, security talksand economic cooperation will lead to further stability.
The North American Free Trade Agreement has dramatically increased trade between the United States and Mexico. The agreement has produced an estimated 200,000 new jobs in the U.S.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says next year should be a year of renewal. Ban: "We must develop a concrete plan to meet the challenges of the next 50 years"
U.N. ged last year and thanks to support in the U.S Congress, $1.2 billion is now available from the United States for this critical account. We must pledge to keep United Nations reformmoving forward so that we do more with less.
The first refugees will be returning within hours, on this day. President Aristide will return. Human rightsviolations will be curbed. The military leaders will step down.
The United States will suspend all unilateral sanctions against Haiti. A multinational development effort will make available more than $1 billion to begin helping the Haitians rebuild their country.
The U.S. ed States will suspend all unilateral sanctions against Haiti except those that affect the military leaders and their immediate supporters. This will include regularly scheduled air and financial transactions and travel restrictions. I urge all other countries to do the same.
NATO air power helped to establish the exclusion zone around Sarajevo and to end the Bosnian Serbs’ spring offensive against Gorazde. NATO’sFebruary ultimatum boosted our mediation efforts. A new resolve by the United Nations to enforce its resolutions is now necessary.
A new resolve by the United Nations to enforce its resolutions is now necessary, says the UN secretary-general. "We have shown that we can carry on the quest for freedom," he says.
We can build a world where democracy knows no borders but where nations know their borders will always be secure. A world that gives all people the chance to realize their potential and live out their dreams.