Sixty years ago, representatives from 16 nations began deliberations on a new international bill of rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a landmark achievement in the history of human liberty.
The United Nations must work to free people from tyranny and violence, hunger and disease, illiteracy and ignorance and poverty and despair. The first article of the Universal Declaration begins by stating that all human bein human.
The first article of the Universal Declaration begins by stating that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Terrorists and extremists kill the innocent with the aim of imposing their hateful vision on humanity. The United States salutes the nations that have taken strides towards liberty.
Lebanon, Afghanistan and Iraq have made the choice for democracy. Yet, the extremists have responded by targeting them for murder. This is not a show of strength; it is evidence of fear. The international community must support these leaders.
The people of Lebanon and Afghanistan and Iraq have asked for our help. Every civilized nation has a responsibility to stand with them. In Belarus, North Korea, Syria and Iran, brutal regimes deny their people fundamental rights.
The U.S. will impose an expanded visa ban on those responsible for human rights violations in Burma. The United States will also tighten economic sanctions on the leaders of the junta and their financial backers.
In Zimbabwe, ordinary citizens suffer under atyrannical regime. The behaviour of the Mugabe regime is an assault on its people. The United Nations must insist on change in Harare and must insist  on freedom for the people.
U.N. rovided more than $2 billion in  humanitarian and peacekeeping aid to Darfur. The United Nations must live up to its promise to deploy peacekeeping forces to the region.
More than half the world’s food assistance comes from America. We send emergency food stocks to starving people, from camps to slums around the world. I have proposed an innovative initiative to alleviate hunger. America would purchase crops of local farmers in Africa and elsewhere.
The world responded by creating the Global Fund, which is working with Governments and the private sector to fight the disease around the world. Malaria is another common killer. In some countries, malaria takes as many lives as HIV/AIDS.
The disease is preventable and treatable. The world knows what it takes to stop malaria   bed nets, indoor spraying and medicine to treat the disease. America launched a $1.2 billion malaria initiative.
A good education starts with good teachers. In partnership with other nations, America is helping nations raise standards in their schools at home. America is also providing scholarships to help students come to schools in the United States.
The United Nations provides vital economic assistance to developing nations. The U.S. has dramatically increased its own development assistance. The United Nations is working to expand access for women and girls to a decent education.
The U.S. has dramatically increased its development assistance to developing nations. The aid dollars are being delivered in innovative ways to help those who need them and achieve results.
The international community now has a historic chance to open markets around the world. A successful Doha Round of trade talks would mean real and substantial openings in agriculture, goods and services. The world’s largest trading nations, including major developing countries, have a special responsibility to reduce trade barriers.
America wi11 continue to pursue agreements that open trade and investment. We recently signed free-trade agreements with Peru, Colombia, Panama and South. Korea. These agreements embody the values of open markets and fair regulation.
The U.S. is committed to a strong and vibrant United States. Yet the American people are disappointed by the failures of the Human Rights Council. That body has been silent on repression by regimes from Havana to Caracas.
The United Nations must first reform its own Human Rights Council. Some have also called for reform of the structure of the Security Council. The United States is open to this prospect. We believe that Japan is well qualified for permanent membership.
With commitment and courage, we can build a world where people are free to speak, assemble and worship as they wish. America will lead towards that vision, in which all are created equal and free to pursue their dreams.