Nixon: "I should like to add my congratulations to those so well expressed by the Minister for External Relations of Brazil" "That President Nixon should ask me as my first official act to speak here for the United States reaffirms the importance"
My country seeks true peace, not simply an armistice. We strive for a world in which the rule of law governs. We will continue to work in this Parliament of Man to make it a reality.
We strive for a world in which the rule of law governs and fundamental human rights are the birthright of all. This will be the spirit of American foreign policy. This attitude will guide our work in this Organization.
Talks on stretegic arms limitation have already produced historic accords aimed at slowing the arms race and ensuring strategic stability. The positive results we hope for will enhance the security of all mankind.
Many other countries have seized the initiative and contributed, in substance and spirit, to the relaxation of tensions. Yet, even in this room, the vocabulary of suspicion persists. Relaxation of tensions is justified by some as merely a practical interlude before renewed struggle.
The world is uneasily suspended between old slogans and new realities. Relaxation of tensions is justified by some as a practical interlude before renewed struggle. Others suspect the emergence of a two- Power condominium.
The United States will never be satisfied with a world of uneasy truces, of offsetting blocs, of accommodations of convenience. We strive for a peace whose stability rests not merely on a balance of forces, but on shared aspirations. We are convinced that a structure which ignores humane values will prove cold and empty.
The United States will spare no effort to ease tensions further. We shall continue, in the spirit of the Shanghai communique, our search for a new relationship with the People's Republic of China. The uncertain peace in Indo-China must be strenghened; the world community cannot afford, or permit, a relapse into war in that region.
We shall honour our pledge to promote self- determination, economic development and human dignity across the continent of Africa. We shall search for solutions to the world-wide problem of conventional weapons, which drain our resources and fuel the fires of local conflict. The strengthening of our traditional ties is the essential foundat.
We will never abandon our allies or our friends. The strengthening of our traditional ties is the essential foundation for the development of new relationships with old adversaries. The more we succeed in solving political problems, the more other and perhaps deeper challenges emerge.
As the threat of war recedes, the problem of the quality of life takes on more urgent significance. Technology daily outstrips the ability of our institutions to cope with its fruits. Our political imagination must catch up with our scientific vision.
The demand for energy is outrunning supply, and the need for technological innovation is urgent. The growth of the world's economy is inhibited by restrictive trading blocs and an insufficiently flexible international monetary system. The exploitation of the resources of the ocean beds requires global co-operation.
A world community requires the curbing of conflicts. The United Nations, in its 28-year history, has not always been idle in this sphere. States to solve these problems co-operatively and to submit proposals at their resolution.
The United States is prepared to consider how the Security Council can play a more central role in the conduct of peace-keeping operations. The exclusion of any qualified State denies representation not only to Governments, but to peoples.
The time has come for North and South Korea to be offered their rightful place here without prejudice to a future evolution towards unification. The exclusion of any qualified State denies representation not only to Governments, but to peoples. A world community must assure that all its people are fed.
The United States proposes that a world food conference should be organized under United Nations auspices in 1974. The conference would discuss ways to maintain adequate food supplies and to harness the efforts of all nations.
The United States is prepared to join this new search, providing freely of the experience gained over two decades. Our search must be candid and realistic, but it must also be free of peremptory demands, antagonistic propositions, ideological confrontation, or propagandistic rhetoric, or we will surely fail.
The proposed rights and duties must be defined equitably and take into account the concerns of industrialized as well as developing countries. The United States stands ready to define its responsibilities in a humane and co-operative spirit.
We must embark on a new scientific revolution to increase agricultural productivity in all lands. No field of human endeavour is so dependent upon an open world for its advancement. We are convinced that we must move from hesitant co-operation born of necessity to genuine collective effort based on common purpose.
77. e effort based on common purpose. We can fill the record of our proceedings with acrimony, or we can dedicate ourselves to dealing with man's deepest needs. The ideal of a world community may be decried as unrealistic, but great constructions have always been ideals before they can become realities.