It is a great honour to address this Assembly for the second time, nearly two years after my election as President of the United States. We each come here with our own problems and priorities. But there are also challenges that we share in common as  leaders and as nations.
Nine years ago, the destruction of the World Trade Center signalled a threat that respected no dignity or decency. Two years ago this month, a financial crisis on Wall Street devastated American families on Main Street. Men and women and children have been murdered by extremists from Casablanca to London, from Jalalabad to Jakarta.
President Barack Obama spoke to the U.S. House of Representatives today. He said he had had no greater focus as President than rescuing our economy from potential catastrophe. Mr Obama said America has joined with nations around the world to spur growth.
There is much to show for our efforts, even as there is much work to be done. The global economy has been pulled back from the brink of a depression. We are exploring ways to expand trade and commerce among nations.
Since I took office, the U.S. has removed nearly 100,000 troops from Iraq. While drawing down in Iraq, we have refocused on defeating Al-Qaida and denying its affiliates safe havens. In Afghanistan, the United States and our allies are pursuing a strategy to break the Taliban’s momentum. And from South Asia to the Horn of Africa, we are moving toward a more targeted approach.
47 nations have embraced a work plan to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials within four years. We have joined with Russia to sign the most comprehensive arms control treaty in decades.
Iran is the only party to the NPT that cannot demonstrate the peaceful intentions of its nuclear programme. The U.S. and the international community seek a resolution to differences with Iran.
For the first time, all major economies have agreed to reduce their emissions. America has also embraced unique responsibilities that come with our power. We are aware this is just a first step and we will support a process in which all majoreconomies meet their responsibilities.
U.N. d all support the Pakistani people as they recover and rebuild. And when the earth shook and Haiti was devastated by loss,                 we joined a coalition of nations in response.
Many are pessimistic about the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians. But if an agreement is not reached, Palestinians will never know the pride and dignity that comes with their own State.
The Holy Land will remain a symbol of our differences, instead of our common humanity. We all have a choice to make. Each of us must choose the path of peace.
Israel’s settlement moratorium has made a difference on the ground and improved the atmosphere for talks. We believe that the moratorium should be extended and that talks should press on until completed. Now is the time for the parties to help each other to overcome this obstacle.
 peace must be made by Israelis and Palestinians, but we each have a responsibility to do our part as well. Those who have signed on to the Arab Peace Initiative should seize this opportunity to make it real.
Those who have signed on to the Arab Peace Initiative should make it real. Those who long to see an independent Palestine must stop trying to tear down Israel. Efforts to threaten or kill Israelis will do nothing to help the Palestinian people.
Efforts to threaten or kill Israelis will do nothing to help the Palestinian people. The slaughter of innocent Israelis is not resistance; it is injustice. The courage of a man like President Abbas is far greater than those who fire rockets at innocent women and children.
This time we will not let terror or turbulence or petty politics stand in the way. This time we should draw upon the teachings of tolerance that lie at the heart of the three great religions. We can have an agreement that will lead to a new State Member of the United Nations.
It is our destiny to bear the burdens of recession and conflict, he says. But we must also look beyond them and consider what we are trying to build over the long term, he adds.
For the United States, this is a matter of moral and pragmatic assessment. As Robert Kennedy said, “the individual man, the child of God, is the touchstone’
Human rights have never gone unchallenged —                 not in any of our nations, not in our world. Tyranny is still with us, whether it manifests itself in the Taliban killing girls who try to go to school or a North Korean regime that enslaves its own people.
We see leaders abolishing term limits, crackdowns on civil society and corruption. Yet history is on the side of open societies and open Governments. America is working to shape a world that fosters this openness.
All of us want the right to educate our children, to make a decent wage, to care for the sick, and to be carried as far as our dreams and deeds will take us. But that depends upon economies that tap the power of our people, including the potential of women and girls. America will partner with nations that offer their people a path out of poverty.
The arc of human progress has been shaped by individuals with the freedom to assemble, says President Jacob Zuma. The same holds true for civil society, he says.
We will support a free and open Internet, so individuals can make up their own minds. Open society supports open government, but it cannot substitute for it. There is no right more fundamental than the right to choose your leaders and decide your destiny.
The ultimate success of democracy in the world will not come because the U.S. dictates it, Obama says. Open society supports open government, but it cannot substitute for it, he says.
I will join the Group-of-20 meeting on the Korean peninsula, which provides the world’s clearest contrast between a society that is dynamic and open and free, and one that is imprisoned and closed. And I will conclude my trip in Japan, an ipientancient culture that found peace and extraordinary development through democracy. The common thread of progress is the principle                 that government is accountable to its citizens.
In all parts of the world, we see the promise of innovation to make government more open and accountable. It is time for every Member State to open its elections to international monitors and increase the United Nations Democracy Fund. We must live up to the ideals that can light the world.
Time to make U.N. peacekeeping more accountable, says U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. He calls on nations that have emerged from tyranny to speak out against oppression.
President Barack Obama has called on Americans to stand up for freedom. He said: 'When dissidents are imprisoned and protesters are beaten, remember your own history' 'That belief will guide America’s leadership in the twenty-first century'
The founding of the United Nations itself is a 'testament to human progress', says U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. U.S. President Barack Obama: 'We must choose a better history'
We see living proof that opportunity can be accessed by all, that what unites us as human beings is far greater than what divides us, and that people from  every part of this world can live together in peace. That we need only to look outside the walls around us.