The United Nations is actively mediating crises before they explode into war, all around the world. Peace has come to Northern Ireland after 29 long years. Bosnia has just held its freest elections ever. Global economic turmoil threatens to undermine confidence in free markets.
U.S. promises to do more to minimize the turmoil and extend the benefits of global markets to all citizens. The United States is determined to do that, he says.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: U.S. citizens have been targeted by terrorists over the last 15 years. Ban: Americans who devoted their lives to building bridges between nations died in a campaign of hatred against the United States. U.N.: We are blessed to be a wealthy nation, with a powerful military and a worldwide presence.
U.S. is blessed to be a wealthy nation, with a powerful military and a worldwide presence active in promoting peace and security. But many people see us as a symbol of a system and values they reject.
Terrorism is a clear and present danger to tolerant and open societies and innocent people everywhere. No one in this room nor the people represented here is immune. Taking risks for peace, to weaken our own own opposition to terrorism, would hand the enemies of peace a victory they must never have.
Not the people of Japan, who were poisoned by sarin gas in the Tokyo subway. Not the Palestinians and Israelis, who still die year after year for all their progress towards peace.
Terror has become the world’s problem. Some argue that the problem is overblown, saying that the number of deaths from terrorism is comparatively small. I believe that misses the point in several ways.
Every bomb, every bomb, has an insidious effect on free and open institutions. Each time an innocent man or woman or child is killed, it makes the future more hazardous for the rest of us. Each violent act saps the confidence that is socrucial to peace and prosperity.
Northern Ireland was a crucial factor in the Good Friday Agreement. But that took confidence, confidence that cannot be bought in times of violence. The question is not only how many lives have been lost in each attack, but how many futures were lost in their aftermath.
Omagh bombing came as peace was succeeding in Northern Ireland. In the Middle East whenever we get close to another step towards peace, its enemies respond with terror. Poverty, inequality and masses of disenfranchised young people are fertile fields for the terrorists.
Poverty, inequality and disenfranchised young people are fertile fields for theiren call of terrorists and their claims of advancing social justice. But deprivation cannot justify destruction; nor can inequity ever atone for murder.
Terrorism’s principal fault line is on what they see as an inevitable clash of civilizations. Developed nations have an obligation to help developing nations stay on the path of prosperity. False prophets may use and abuse any religion to justify whatever political objectives they have.
A quarter of the world’s population is Muslim. Islam is one of our fastest growing faiths. There are over 1,200 mosques and Islamic centres in the United States.
President Barack Obama: 'We are not identical. There are important Differences that cross race and culture and religion' 'We will remain on a course offriendship with and respect for the Muslim world' 'When it comes to terrorism, there should be no dividing line between Mu'
When it comes to terrorism, there should be no dividing line between Muslims and Jews, Protestants and Catholics. The only dividing line is between those who practise, support or tolerate terror and those who understand that it is murder, plain and simple.
We are working to do our part. Our intelligence and law enforcement communities are tracking terrorist networks. Some of those we believe responsible for the recent bombing of our embassies have been brought to justice. Early this week I will ask our Congress to provide emergency funding to repair our embassies.
We will also do our part to address the sources ofdespair and alienation through the Agency for International Development in Africa, in Asia, in Latin America, in Eastern Europe, in Haiti and elsewhere. We will continue our strong support for the United Nations DevelopmentProgramme.
The fight will not be easy, but every nation will bestrengthened in joining it. It is very, very important that we do this together.
It is not necessary that we solve all the world’s problems to have confidence in one another. It is necessary to believe in the primacy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Together, together we canmeet it and overcome its threats, its injuries and its fears.