There is today hope of peace in the Persian Gulf and Afghanistan. In the highlands and coastal cities of southern Africa, places of civil war, talk of peace is heard.
For the first time, the differences between East and West - fundamental differences over important moral questions - have shown signs of easing. And especially in Central America, nations such as El Salvador, now know the hope of self-government.
For the first time these differences have shown signs of easing, easing to the point where there are not just troop withdrawals from places such as Afghanistan. There is the prospect of not only a new era in Soviet-United States relations but a new age of world peace. Such reform can bring peace.
Mr. Secretary-General, you have shown in working towards peace in Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf how valuable the United Nations can be. We salute you for these accomplishments. In Geneva at this very hour there are numerous negotiations under way: multilateral negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament.
Negotiators have been engaged in more than an academic exercise. There is movement; the log-jam is broken. Progress continues on negotiations to reduce strategic weapons in massive number.
I said at the first meeting in Geneva that this was a unique encounter between two people who had the power to start a third world war. I also said that peace conferences, arms negotiations and proposals for treaties could make sense only if they were part of a wider context. I said to Mr. Gorbachev then, as I have said to the Assembly before, that nations do not mistrust each other because they are armed.
"Mr. Gorbachev and I did begin a new relationship based not just on engagement over the single issue of arras control," he says. "What was begun that morning in Geneva has shown results: in the INF Treaty?"
The League of Nations was to symbolize an end to all war. But that institution and its noble purpose ended with the Second World War. It ended because humanity did not find the courage to isolate the aggressors.
We are determined that the United Nations shall succeed and serve the cause of peace for humankind. We realize that, even in this time of hope, the chance of failure is teal, but this knowledge does not discourage us: it spurs us on. So we turn now to the agenda of peace.
This fall marks the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In a century where human rights have been denied by totalitarian governments, few can wonder why peace has proved so elusive.
If we would have peace, we must acknowledge the elementary rights of our fellow human beings, in our own land and in other lands. Human rights is not for some, some of the time.
When human rights concerns are not paramount at the United Nations, the credibility of this Organization is at stake. For years, Cuba, a blatant violator of its citizens' human rights, has escaped United Nations censure or even scrutiny.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has called for greater respect for human rights in Cuba. Cuba has been accused of human rights abuses, including torture.
There is a new awareness, a growing passion for human rights. In the Gulf War between Iran and Iraq, we have a cease-fire. The Security Council's decisive resolution in July a year ago has become the blueprint for a peaceful Gulf.
The Security Council's decisive resolution in July a year ago has become the blueprint for a peaceful Gulf. Let both Iran and Iraq co-operate with the Secretary-General and the Security Council in implementing resolution 598 (1978)
We look forward to an accord between the Governments of Angola, Cuba, and South Africa that will bring about a complete withdrawal of all foreign troops. We look forward as well to full implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and our longstanding goal of independence for Namibia.
There are new hopes for Cambodia, a nation whose freedom and independence we seek. We applaud the Secretary-General's efforts to structure a referendum on the Western Sahara. In the Mediterranean, direct talks between Greek and Turkish Cypriot common ties hold much promise.
In the Mediterranean, direct talks between Greek and Turkish Cypriot common ties hold much promise for accord in that divided island nation. We look to a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. So, too, the unnatural division of Europe remains a critical obstacle to Soviet-American relations.
I refer here to the continuing deterioration of human rights in Nicaragua. This elite - in calling itself revolutionary - seeks no real revolution. The use of the term is subterfuge, deception for hiding the oldest, most corrupt vice of all.
I will continue to urge the Congress and the American public to stand behind those who resist this attempt to impose a totalitarian regime on the people of Nicaragua. I also call on the Soviet Union to show in Central America the same spirit of constructive realism it has shown in other regional conflicts.
With regard to the arms reduction agenda, I have already mentioned the importance of the INF Treaty and the momentum developed in the strategic arms reduction talks (START) The draft START treaty is a lengthy process filled with bracketed language designating sections of disagreement between the two sides. But through this summer in Geneva, those brackets have diminished; there is every reason to believe this process can continue.
Much of the momentum in nuclear-arms-control negotiations is due to technological progress itself, especially in the potential for space-based defensive systems. With such systems, for the first time, in case of accidental launch or the act of a madman somewhere, major Powers will not be faced with the single option of massive retaliation.
As defensive systems grow in effectiveness, they reduce the threat and the value of greater and greater offensive arsenals. Today, the United States reaffirms its commitment to its strategic defence initiative.
The use of chemical weapons in the Iran-Iraq war jeopardizes the moral and legal strictures that have held those weapons in check since the First World War. We urge all nations to co-operate in negotiating a verifiable, truly global ban on chemical weapons.
It is incumbent upon all civilized nations to ban, once and for all - and on a verifiable and global basis - the use of chemical and gas warfare. Talks between American and Soviet experts begin on this today.
Rut in most of these areas we see not only progress but also the potential for an increasingly vital role for multilateral efforts and institutions like the U.N. That is why now more than ever the United Nations must continue to increase its effectiveness through budget and programme reform.
We congratulate the United Nations on the work it has done in three areas of special concern. First, our struggle against the scourge of terrorism and State-sponsored terrorism must continue. Second, the work of the World Health Organization in co-ordinating and advancing research on AIDS is vital. All international efforts in this area must be redoubled. The AIDS crisis is a grave one; we must move as one to meet it.
U.N. is a better place than it was eight years ago - and so, too, is the world. But the real issue of reform in the United Nations is not limited to fiscal and administrative improvements. It includes also a higher sort of reform, an intellectual and philosophical reform.
Free-market incentives and a lessening of State controls to spur economic development. Every year that passes, everywhere in the world, this lesson is taking hold. We believe in freedom; we know that it works.
Every year that passes, everywhere in the world, this lesson is taking hold - from the People's Republic of China to Cameroon, from Bolivia to Botswana. No, my country did not invent this synergy of peace and freedom, but, believe me, we impose no restrictions on the free export of our more than two centuries of experience.
The world is witnessing another celebration of international co-operation. At the Olympics we see nations joining together in the competition of sports. I dare to hope that in the sentiment of that young athlete we see a sign of the rediscovery of old and tested values.
U.N. Secretary-General: Human rights can be made only in context of higher law. U.N.: Human rights must be cherished and protected, as well as work, community, freedom.
This is the endless cycle, the final truth to which humankind seems always to return - that religion and morality, faith in something higher, are prerequisites for freedom, and that justice and peace within ourselves is the first step.
This morning, my thoughts go to her who gave me many things in life but whose most important gift was the knowledge of the happiness and solace to be gained in prayer. No one of them could ever have imagined that the boy from the banks of the Rock River would come to this moment and have this opportunity. But, had they been told that it would happen, I think they would have.
"When we grow weary of the world and its troubles, it is then that we must seek contort and refreshment of spirit in a deeper source of wisdom, one greater than ourselves," he says. "The truly majestic music, the music of freedom, justice and peace, is the music made in forgetting self and seeking in silence the will of Him who made us"
"The truly majestic music, the music of freedom, justice and peace, is the music made in forgetting self and seeking in silence the will of Him who made us," he said.