I feel a great personal pleasure on this occasion, for this is a homecoming for both Barbara and me. The memories of my time here in 1971 and 1972 are still with me today. I should like to congratulate Joseph Garba of Nigeria, a distinguished diplomat, on his election as President.
The universal groan that went up around that table from every representative present, and the laughter that followed united us all. Today, I would like to begin by recognising - again, a personal privilege - the current Permanent Representatives.
The United Nations was established forty-four years ago upon the ashes of war and amidst great hopes. The UN is not perfect, it is not a panacea for the world's problem. But it is a vital forum where the nations of the world seek to replace conflict with consensus.
Lieutenant-Colonel William Richard Higgins was killed in Afghanistan. He was on a mission of peace under the United Nations flag. The General Assembly should condemn his murder and return his remains.
The United Nations can play a fundamental role in the central issue of our time. There is an idea at work around the globe, an idea of undeniable force - and that idea is freedom. Freedom's advance is evident everywhere.
Freedom's march is not confined to a single continent or to the developed world alone. The trend we see is not yet universal. Some regimes still stand against the tide. But now the power of prejudice and despotism is challenged.
Two hundred years ago today, the United States proposed the Bill of Rights. Rights no Government can deny. Those same rights have been recognized in this congress of nations in the words of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
For the first time, for millions around the world, a new world of freedom is within reach. There will come a day when freedom is seen the world over to be the universal birthright of every man and woman.
For millions around the world, a new world of freedom is within reach. Today is freedom's moment. Our challenge is to strengthen the foundations of freedom, encourage its advance.
Too many developing countries struggle today under a burden of debt that makes growth all but impossible. The approach the United States has put forward - the Brady plan - will help these nations reduce that debt and encourage the free market reforms that will fuel economic growth.
In just two days, I will be speaking to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and I will discuss there, in more detail, the steps that our nations can take in dealing with the debt problem. The power of commerce is a force for progress. Open markets are the key to continued growth in the developing world.
I believe we will learn, in the century ahead, that many nations of the world have barely begun to tap their true potential for development. The free market and its fruits are not the special preserve of a few, they are a harvest that everyone can share.
U.S. has proposed amending its own Clean Air Act to ensure clean air for its citizens. We have banned the import of ivory to protect the elephant and rhinoceros from predators.
More than 20 nations now possess chemical weapons. These horrible weapons are now finding their way into regional conflicts. For the sake of mankind, we must halt and reverse this threat.
The U.S. is ready to destroy 98 per cent of its chemical weapons stockpile. If the Soviet Union joins the ban, and I think it will, we will destroy all. apons from the Earth within 10 years.
We know that monitoring a total ban on chemical weapons will be a challenge. But the knowledge we have gained from our recent arms control experience makes me believe that we can achieve the level of verification. The world has lived too long in the shadow of chemical warfare. Let us act together, beginning today, to rid the Earth of this scourge.
The United States is convinced that open and innovative measures can move disarmament forward and ease international tensions. Openness is the enemy of mistrust, and every step towards a more open world is a step towards the new world we seek.
We reached agreements in principle on issues from verification to nuclear testing. And, of course, we agreed to a summit in the spring or early summer of 1990. I look forward to meeting Mr. Gorbachev there.
The challenge of preserving peace is a personal one for all individuals right here in this Hall. The United Nations can be a mediator, a forum where parties in conflict come in search of peaceful solutions. The U.S. is determined to take an active role in settling regional conflicts.
Illegal drugs are a menace to social order and a source of human misery wherever they gain a foothold. The nations which suffer this scourge must join forces in the fight, and we are.
Terrorism of any kind is repugnant to all values that a civilized world holds in common. We know that free government, democracy, is best. In democracy, diversity finds its common home.
At the very heart of the democratic ideal is respect for freedom of belief, freedom of thought and action, in all its diversity, for human rights. In democracy, diversity finds its common home.
I do remember sitting in this Hall, I remember the mutual respect among all of us proudly serving as representatives. And I remember something more, something beyond the frantic pace and sometimes frustrating experiences of  the General Assembly. There is a painting that hangs on the wall of my office in the White House which pictures President Abraham Lincoln and his generals meeting near the end of a war that remains the bloodiest in the history of my country.
President Obama: "Can we not make this new world of freedom the common destiny we seek?" "What we sought then, all of us, now lies within our reach"
Mr. and Mrs. President Obama have been married for more than 30 years. Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, have two children. The couple has been married since 1993.