President Barack Obama has been in office for just nine months. He says he is well aware of the expectations that accompany his presidency. But he says they are rooted in hope that real change is possible.
President Barack Obama took office at a time when many around the world had come to view America with scepticism and mistrust. A part of that was due to misperceptions and                 misinformation about my country.
Nations and people are shared. The technology we harness can light the path to peace, or forever darken it. The hope of a single child, anywhere, can enrich our world, or impoverish it.
President Barack Obama has ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed. He has also banned the use of torture by the U.S. government. Obama said: 'The future will be forged by deeds, and not simply words'
In Afghanistan and Pakistan, we and many nations are helping to develop the capacity to take the lead in this effort. In Iraq we are responsibly ending a war. We have  purposefully removed American combat brigades from Iraqi cities.
The US and Russia announced that they would pursue substantial reductions in strategic warheads and launchers. America has invested $80 billion in clean energy. We have substantially increased our fuel efficiency standards.
We have moved from being a bystander to being a leader in climate negotiations. nge we have invested                 $80 billion in clean energy. We have substantially                 increased fuel efficiency standards.
America has re-engaged the U.N. and joined the Human Rights Council. We have fully embraced the Millennium Development Goals. But make no mistake: this cannot solely be America’s endeavour.
We have sought, in word and deed, a                 new era of engagement with the world. Now is the time for all of us to take our share of responsibility for a global response to global challenges.
Franklin Roosevelt said the structure of world peace cannot be the work of one man, one party, or one nation. It must be the cooperative effort of the whole world, he said.
Power is no longer a zero-sum game. No one nation can or should dominate another nation. No world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will succeed. Traditional divisions between nations make no sense in an interconnected world.
The time has come to realize that the old habits and arguments are irrelevant to the challenges faced by our peoples. Together we must build coalitions that bridge old divides. The choice is ours.
President Barack Obama: "We can be a generation that chooses to see the shoreline beyond the rough waters ahead" Obama: We must stop the spread of nuclear weapons and seek the goal of a worl
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was founded at the dawn of the atomic age. It says that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy.
The next 12 months could be pivotal in determining whether this compact will be strengthened or dissolve. America intends to keep our end of the bargain. We will pursue a new agreement with Russia to reduce our strategic warheads.
I will call upon countries to begin negotiations in January on a treaty to end the production of fissile material for weapons. I will also host a summit next April that reaffirms each nation’s responsibility to secure nuclear material. Those nations that refuse to live up to their responsibilities must face consequences.
The Governments of North Korea and Iran threaten to take us down this dangerous                 slope. I am committed to diplomacy that opens a path                 to greater prosperity and more secure peace for both nations. But if the Governments of Iran and North Korea choose to ignore international standards then they must be held accountable.
The United Nations was born of the belief that the people of the world can live their lives and resolve differences peacefully. We can either accept that outcome as inevitable and tolerate constant and crippling conflict, or we can assert our resolve to end conflicts around the world.
We will stand by our friends on the front lines, as we  will do in pledging support for the Pakistani people. And we will pursue  positive engagement that builds bridges among faiths and new partnerships.
We will pursue a lasting peace in Sudan, through support for the people of Darfur and the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. And in countries ravaged by violence, from Haiti to Congo to East Timor, we will work with the United Nations and other partners to support an enduring peace.
I will also continue to seek a just and lasting                 peace between Israel, Palestine and the Arab world. Yesterday I had a constructive meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas. We have made some progress. But more progress is needed.
The goal is clear: two states living side by side in peace and security, he says. In pursuit of that goal, we will develop regional initiatives with multilateral participation, he adds.
All of us must say publicly what we would acknowledge in private. The U.S. does Israel no favours when we fail to couple security with respect for rights. We must remember the greatest price of this conflict is not paid by us.
This is about the right of every human being to live with dignity and security. And that is why I will not waiver in my pursuit of peace. The danger posed by climate change cannot be denied. Our responsibility to meet it must not be deferred.
Every member of this Assembly will see irreversible changes within its borders. The days when America dragged its feet on this issue are over. We will move forward with investments to transform our energy economy.
We will press ahead with deep cuts in emissions to reach the goals that we set for 2020, and eventually 2050. We will continue to promote renewable energy and efficiency with countries around the world.
It is hard to change something as fundamental as how we use energy, he says. It is even harder to do so in the midst of a global recession, he adds. The world is still recovering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
Across the globe, we find promising signs, but little certainty about what lies ahead. In Pittsburgh, we will work with the world’s largest economies to chart a course for growth that is balanced and sustained.
America will continue its historic effort to help people                 feed themselves. We have set aside $63 billion to fight against HIV/AIDS, to end deaths from tuberculosis and malaria. We are joining with other countries to contribute H1N1 vaccines to the WHO.
Growth will not be sustained or shared unless all nations embrace their responsibilities. Wealthy nations must open their markets to more goods and extend a hand to those with less. Developing nations must root out the corruption that is an obstacle to progress.
Our goal is simple: a global economy in which growth is sustained and opportunity is available to all. I believe that the people of the world want this                 future for their children. And that is why we must champion those principles that ensure that governments reflect the will of the people.
Democracy and human rights are essential to achieving each of the goals that I have discussed today. Governments of the people and by the people are more likely to act in the broader interests of their own people, rather than the narrow interest of those in power. True leadership will not be measured by the ability to muzzle dissent or to intimidate political opponents at home.
Rganization’s Charter commits each of us ‘to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights’ Among those rights is the freedom to speak your mind and worship as you please.
I pledge that America will always stand with those who stand up for their dignity and their rights. Democracy cannot be imposed on any nation, and no path is perfect. America has too often been selective in its promotion of democracy.
The United Nations was founded by men and women from every corner of the world. The architects of international cooperation had an idealism that was anything but naive. Now it falls to us, for this institution will be what we make of it.
The United Nations does extraordinary good around the world, in feeding the hungry, caring for the sick and mending places that have been broken. But it also struggles to enforce its will and to live up to the ideals of its founding. Now it falls to us, for this institution will be what we make of it.
The United Nations can be an institution that is. disconnected from what matters in the lives of our                 citizens or it can be. indispensable factor in advancing the interests of the people we serve. We have reached a pivotal moment. The United                 States stands ready to begin a new chapter of                 international cooperation.