Twenty-four months ago, andyesterday in the memory of America, the centre of New York City became a battlefield, and a graveyard, and the symbol of an unfinished war. Since that day,terrorists have struck in Bali, in Mombassa, in Casablanca, in Riyadh, in Jakarta, in Jerusalem.
America joins you, his colleagues, in honouring thememory of Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and the memory of all those who died with him in the service of the United Nations.
All Governments that support terror are complicit in a war against civilization. No Government should ignore the threat of terror because to look the other way gives terrorists the chance to regroup and prepare.
Saddam Hussain cultivated ties to terror while it built weapons of mass destruction. He refused to account for them when confronted by the world. The Security Council was right to demand Iraq destroy its illegal weapons.
Saddam Hussain's monuments have been removed, and not only his statues. The torture chambers, rape rooms and the prison cells for innocent children are closed. The Iraqi people are meeting hardships andchallenges, like every nation that has set out on the path of democracy. Yet, their future promises lives of dignity and freedom.
The U.N. s in Afghanistan and Iraq were supported by many Governments, and America is thankful to each one. The terrorists and their allies fear and fight against progress above all because free people embrace hope over resentment and choose peace over violence.
NATO has taken over the United Nationsmandated security force in Kabul. American and coalition forces continue to track and defeat al Qaeda and the Taliban. I have recently proposed to spend an additional $1.2 billion for the Afghanconstruction effort.
Iraq's food distribution system is operational, delivering nearly a half million tons of food per month. We are conducting precision raids against terrorists and holdouts of the former regime.
The coalition is helping to improve the daily lives of the Iraqi people. The old regime built up armies and weapons while allowing the nation's infrastructure to crumble. We are rebuilding power plants, water and sanitationfacilities, bridges and airports.
The primary goal of our coalition in Iraq is self-                government for the people of Iraq. That process must unfold according to the needs of Iraqis, neither hurried nor delayed. The United Nations can contribute greatly to the cause of Iraq's self-government.
The success of a free Iraq will be watched and watched throughout the region. Iraq as a democracy will have great power to inspire the Middle East. The advance of democratic institutions in Iraq is setting an example.
The advance of democratic institutions in Iraq is setting an example that others, including the Palestinian people, would be wise to follow. America will work with every nation in the region that acts boldly for peace.
America will work with every nation in the region that acts boldly for the sake of peace. Weapons of mass destruction could be used to bring sudden disaster and suffering on a scale we can scarcely imagine.
G-8 nations agreed to provide up to 20 billion dollars to fight proliferation risk. Eleven nations are preparing to search planes, ships, trains and trucks carrying suspect cargo.
We are determined to keep the world's most destructiveweapons away from all our shores and out of the hands of our common enemies. The United States stands ready to help any nation draft these new laws.
The United States has pledged 15 billion dollars over five years to fight AIDS around the world. We are providing more than 1.4 billion dollars in global emergency food aid. The United States stands ready to help any nation draft these new laws.
Each year, an estimated eight to nine hundred thousand human beings are bought, sold or forced across the world's borders. Among them are hundreds of thousands of teenage girls and others as young as five who fall victim to the sex trade.
The Protect Act makes it a crime for any person to enter the U.S. or for any citizen to travel abroad for the purpose of sex tourism involving children. The Department of Justice is activelyinvestigating sex tour operators and patrons.
Some nations make it a crime to sexually abuse children abroad. Such conduct should be a crime in all nations. Governments should inform travellers of the harm this industry does and the severe punishments that will fall on its patrons.
Afghanistan and Iraq to succeed as free nations; cutting off the avenues of slavery; abolishing modern forms of slavery. These are the kinds of great tasks for which the United Nations was founded. In each case, careful discussion and decisive action are needed.
The United Nations and the founding documents of America stand in the same tradition. Both assert that human beings should never be reduced to objects of power or commerce. Both recognize a moral law that stands above men and nations.