We come together at a                 crossroads between war and peace. Between disorder and integration, between fear and hope. Around the globe, there are signposts of progress. The shadow of the Second World War has been lifted.
President Barack Obama: This is the best time in human history to be born. Obama: We have learned to cure disease and harness the power of the wind and the sun.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon calls for urgent action on Ebola and terrorism. He says the international system has failed to keep pace with an interconnected world.
United Nations with a choice to make. We can renew                 the international system that has enabled so much progress. Or we can allow ourselves to be pulled back by an undertow of instability. For America, the choice is clear — we choose hope over fear.
Will the nations represented here today be able to renew the purpose of the United Nations? Will we come together to reject the cancer of violent extremism? We are here because others realized that we are better off together.
Russia’s actions in Ukraine have challenged that post-war order. Russia poured arms into eastern Ukraine, fuelling violent separatists. When a civilian airliner was shot down, Russia refused to allow access to the crash site.
America stands for something different. We believe that right makes might, that bigger nations should not bully smaller ones and that people should be able to choose their own future. America and our allies will support the people of Ukraine as they develop democracy and economy.
The recent ceasefire agreement in Ukraine offers an opening to achieve those objectives. The United States and Russia have been able to do in past years to reduce our nuclear stockpiles.
The U.S. is committed to working with all nations to address the problems we face in the twenty-first century. America is deploying its doctors and scientists to help contain the outbreak of Ebola.
America is pursuing a diplomatic resolution to the Iranian nuclear issue. But that can take place only if Iran seizes this historic opportunity. We can reach a solution that meets Iran’s energy needs while reassuring the world.
America is committed to a development agenda that eradicates extreme poverty by 2030. We will insist that all nations abide by the rules of the road and resolve territorial disputes peacefully.
America is pursuing ambitious reductions in carbon emissions. We will do our part and help developing nations do theirs. But science tells us that we can succeed in combating climate change only if we are joined in that effort by every other nation.
Terrorism is not a new weapon, says President Kennedy. But in this century, we have faced a more lethal and ideological brand of terrorists. Terrorists have embraced a nightmarish vision that would divide the world into adherents and infidels.
I have made it clear that America will not base its entire foreign policy on reacting to terrorism. We have waged a focused campaign against Al-Qaida and its associated forces. At the same time, we have reaffirmed again and again that the United States is not and never will be at war with Islam.
We reject any suggestion of a clash of                 civilizations. Belief in permanent religious war is the refuge of extremists. The future of humankind depends on our uniting against those who would divide us along the fault lines of tribe, race or religion.
The Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) must be degraded and ultimately destroyed. Mothers, sisters and daughters have been subjected to rape as a weapon of war. Innocent children have been gunned down. Religious minorities have been starved to death.
The United States of America will work with a broad coalition to dismantle that network of death. We will use our military might to roll back ISIL in a campaign of air strikes, and train and equip forces fighting on the ground.
More than 40 nations have already offered to join the coalition. Those who continue to fight for a hateful cause will find that they are increasingly alone.
It is time for a new compact among the civilized peoples of this world to eradicate war at its most fundamental source. No children                 are born hating, and no children anywhere should be                 educated to hate other people.
All religions have  been attacked by extremists from within at some point. We must offer an alternative vision. That means bringing people of different faiths together. All people of faith have a responsibility to lift up the value of Islam.
The Security Council will adopt a resolution that underscores the responsibility of States to counter violent extremism. But resolutions must be followed by tangible commitments. Next year, we should announce the concrete steps we have taken to counter extremist ideologies in our countries.
Sectarian conflict creates the conditions terrorists prey upon. Christianity endured centuries of sectarian conflict. Today it is violence within Muslim communities that has become the source of misery.
A brutal civil war in Syria has already killed nearly 200,000 people. Iraq has come perilously close to plunging back into the abyss. The good news is that we also see signs that the tide  can be reversed.
There is no other way for the madness in Syria to end, whether one year from now or 10. The Arab and Muslim world must focus on the extraordinary potential of their people.
Muslim world must focus on extraordinary potential of their people, especially youth, says Obama. You come from a great tradition that stands for education, not destruction, he says. Those who call you away from that path are betraying that tradition, not defending it.
If young people live in places where the only option is between dictates of a State or the lure of an extremist underground, then no counterterrorism strategy can succeed. But where a genuine civil society is allowed to flourish, you dramatically expand the alternatives to terror. We see that in Iraq, where a young man started a library for his peers.
The task of rejecting sectarianism and rejecting extremism is a generational one. No external power can bring about a transformation of hearts and minds. But America will be a respectful and constructive partner.
We will increase efforts to lift  up those who counter extremist ideologies and who seek to resolve sectarian conflict. We will expand our programmes to support entrepreneurship and civil  society, education and youth.
President Obama says the status quo in the West Bank and Gaza is not sustainable. He says the U.S. will stand up for the principle that Israelis, Palestinians, and the region will be more just and more safe.
I realize that America’s critics will be quick to point  out that at times we too have failed to live up to our ideals. That is true. But we welcome the scrutiny of the world, because  what you see in America is a country that has steadily worked to address our problems.
America is not the same as it was 100 years ago, 50 years ago or even a decade ago. We fight for our ideals and we are willing to criticize ourselves when we fall short. We address our differences in the open space of democracy.
I have seen a longing for positive change in the eyes of young people around the globe. They remind me that no matter who you are or where you come from or what you look like, there is something fundamental we all share. Around the world, young people are moving forward,  hungry for a better world.
Around the world, young people are moving forward,                 hungry for a better world, he says. And they are overcoming hatred and bigotry and                 sectarianism, he adds. The people of the world now look to us, here, to                 be as decent and dignified and courageous as they are.
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery.