Chris Stevens was born in Grass Valley, California, the son of a lawyer and a musician. He joined the Peace Corps and taught English in Morocco. As a diplomat, he worked from Egypt to Syria, from Saudi Arabia to Libya. He helped the Libyan people as they coped with violent conflict.
Two weeks ago, Chris Stevens travelled to Benghazi to review plans to establish a new cultural center and modernize a hospital. Along with three of his colleagues, he was killed in the city that he had helped to save. Like his fellow Foreign Serviceofficers, he built bridges across oceans and cultures.
The attacks on the American civilians in Benghazi                were attacks on America. We are grateful for the assistance we received from the Libyan Government and the Libyan people. There should be no doubt that we will be relentless in tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice.
The attacks are an assault on the ideals upon which the U.N. was founded, says U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Chris Stevens. "We must speak honestly about the deeper causes of the crisis," he says.
It has been less than two years since a vendor in Tunisia set himself on fire to protest oppressive corruption. Since then, the world has been captivated by the transformation that has taken place. Today, we must declare that such violence                and intolerance has no place among our United Nations.
We intervened in Libya alongside a broad coalition with the mandate of the U.N. Security Council because we believed that the people were more powerful than a corrupt status quo. We have taken those positions because we believe that freedom and self-determination are not unique to one culture. And even as there will be huge challenges that come with a transition to democracy, I am convinced that, progressively, Government of the people, by the people and for the people is more likely to bring about the stability, prosperity and security.
For the first time in decades, Tunisians, Egyptians andLibyans voted for new leaders. That democratic spirit has not been restricted to the Arab world.
Around the globe, people are making their voices heard, insisting on their innate dignity and the right to determine their future. True democracy demands that citizens cannot be thrown in jail because of what they believe and that businesses can be opened without paying a bribe.
In hard economic times, countries may be tempted to rally the people around perceived enemies at home and abroad. dictators who cling to power, corrupt interests that depend upon the status quo, and extremists who fan the flames of hate and division.
The U.S. Government had nothing to do with the crude and disgusting video. It is an insult not only to Muslims, but to America as a country, he said.
President Barack Obama defends the right to free speech in the US. He said: 'I accept that people are going to call me awful things every day. I will always defend their right to do so'
Do so because we support hateful speech, but because founders understood that without such protections, individuals' capacity to express their own views may be threatened. We do so because in a diverse society, efforts to restrict speech can quickly become a tool to silence critics and oppress minorities.
In 2012, at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views, the notion that we can control the f low of information is obsolete. The question then is how do we respond? There is no speech that justifiesmindless violence.
The events of the past two weeks also speak to the need for all of us to honestly address the tensions between the West and the Arab world. The U.S. has not and will not seek to dictate the outcome of democratic transitions abroad.
It is time to marginalize those who use hatred of America, or the West, or Israel, as the central organizing principle of politics. That brand of politics, one that pits East against West, South against North, Muslims against Christians and Hindus and Jews, cannot deliver on the promise of freedom.
It should be understood that America will never                retreat from the world. We will bring to justice those                who harm our citizens and our friends. We are willing to partner with countries around the world to deepen ties.
The impulse towards tolerance and violence may initially be focused on the West. But over time it cannot be contained. In less than two years, we have seen largely peaceful protests in Muslim-majority countries.
In less than two years, we have seen more change in Muslim-majority countries than in a decade of violence. extremists understand this. They do not build; they only destroy. It is time to leave the call to violence and the politics of division behind.
The future must not belong to those who slander the Prophet of Islam, he says. The images of Jesus Christ that are desecrated, churches that are destroyed, or the Holocaust that is denied are hate crimes.
Let us condemn incitement against Sufi Muslims and Shia pilgrims. Let us leave behind those who reject the right of Israel to exist. In Syria, the future must not belong to a dictator who massacres his people.
In Syria, the future must not belong to a dictator                who massacres his people. If there is a cause that cries out for protest in the world today, peaceful protest, it is a regime that tortures children. We must remain engaged to ensure that what began with citizens demanding their rights does not end in sectarian violence.
The Iranian Government continues to prop up a dictator in Damascus and supports terrorist groups abroad. Time and again, it has failed to take the opportunity to demonstrate that its nuclear programme is peaceful. America wants to resolve this issue through diplomacy.
A nuclear-armed Iran is not a challenge that can be contained. It would threaten the security of Gulf nations and stability of the global economy. It risks triggering a nuclear-arms race in the region.
Nations in every part of the world have travelled this difficult path. Europe, the bloodiest battlefield of the twentieth century, is united, free and at peace. From Brazil to South Africa, Turkey to South Korea, from India to Indonesia, people of different races, religions and traditions have lifted millions out of poverty.
President Barack Obama says he remains hopeful about the world we live in. Obama: The war in Iraq is over. Al-Qaida has been weakened, and Osama bin Laden is no more.
The U.S. has worked with African leaders to help them feed their nations. New partnerships have been forged to combat corruption and promote open government.
President Obama: "For every angry mob that gets shown on television, there are billions around the world who share similarhopes and dreams" "The United States of America will always stand up for these aspirations, for our own people and for people all across the world"
Chris Stevens’s legacy will live on in the lives that he touched, says President Obama. “The United States of America will always stand up for these aspirations, for our own people and for people across the world,” he says.
"e of liberty will never be reversed," says President Barack Obama. Obama: "We are not going to give up on liberty. We are not giving up on freedom"