Sixty-three years ago, representatives from around the world gathered in San Francisco to complete the founding of the United Nations. They agreed on a historic pledge to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights and unite their strength to maintain international peace and security.
They reject the Bible, the Koran, the Torah or any standard of conscience of morality. They imperil the values of justice and human rights that gave birth to the UN.
For eight years, the nations in this Assembly have worked together to confront the extremist threat. We must actively challenge the conditions of tyranny and despair that allow terror and extremists to thrive. By acting together to meet the challenge of our time, we can lead a world that is more secure and prosperous.
The U.N. and other multilateral organizations must continually confront terror. The mission requires clarity of vision. We must see the terrorists for what they are, he says.
No cause  can justify the deliberate taking of innocent life, and the international community is nearing universal agreement on this truth. The vast majority of nations agree that tactics like suicide bombing, hostage-taking and hijacking are never legitimate. The Security Council has adopted resolutions declaring terror unlawful.
Like slavery and piracy, terrorism has                 no place in the modern world. Nations are turning words into action by sharing intelligence, conducting joint operations and freezing terrorists’ finances.
Nations like Saudi Arabia and Pakistan are actively pursuing the terrorists. Libya has renounced its support for terror and its pursuit of nuclear weapons. We must remain vigilant against proliferation by fully implementing resolution 1540.
We must remain vigilant against proliferation by fully  implementing the terms of resolution 1540 (2004) and  enforcing sanctions against North Korea and Iran. To uphold the Charter’s promise of peace and security in the twenty-first century, we must also confront the ideology of the terrorists.
History shows that when citizens have a voice in choosing their own leaders, they are less likely to search for meaning in radical ideologies. Advancing this vision of freedom serves our highest ideals, as expressed in the United Nations Charter.
From the Orange Revolution in Ukraine to the Rose Revolution in Georgia, the Cedar Revolution in Lebanon and the Tulip Revolution in Kyrgyzstan, we have seen people consistently make the courageous decision to demand their liberty. Nations represented in the Hall have supported the efforts of dissidents, reformers and civil society advocates in newly free societies.
I appreciate the U.N. decision this week to renew the mandate of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. In Iraq, the fight has been difficult, yet daily life has improved dramatically over the past 20 months.
The U.N. is carrying out an ambitious strategy to strengthen Iraq’s democracy. We should all welcome this progress  toward stability and peace. We must stand united in our support of other young democracies, from Lebanon to Georgia.
Russia’s invasion of Georgia was a violation of those rights. Young democracies  around the world are watching to see how we respond. The United States has worked with allies in  multilateral institutions to uphold Georgia’S territorial integrity.
Extremists find their most fertile recruiting grounds in societies trapped in chaos and despair. In the shadows of hopelessness, radicalism                 thrives. Overcoming hopelessness requires addressing its causes: poverty, disease and ignorance.
My nation is placing insistence on results at the heart of our foreign assistance programmes. We launched a new initiative, called the Millennium Challenge Account, which directs our help to countries that produce results.
The U.N. will be more effective by showing faith in the people of the developing world, says U.S. President Barack Obama. America sought to apply this model in its Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
Five years ago, 50,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa were receiving treatment for HIV/AIDS; today, that number is nearly 1.7 million. The G-8 has pledged to match America’s efforts on malaria and HIV/ AIDS.
Trade and investment is one of the most powerful engines of development. The most effective step of all would be an agreement that tears down trade barriers. The recent impasse in the Doha round is disappointing, but that does not have to be the final word.
The U.S. commitment to open economies and stand firm against economic isolationism is being tested by turbulence in the global financial markets. The Federal Reserve has injected urgently neededliquidity into the system.
I am confident that we will act in the urgent time frame                  required. The objectives I have laid out for multilateral institutions confronting terror, opposing tyranny and promoting effective development are difficult, but they are necessary tasks.
The United Nations should build on its successes and improve its performance. The U.N. must open the door to a new age of transparency, accountability and seriousness of purpose.
With determination and clear purpose, the United Nations can be a powerful force for good. As it rebuilds its Headquarters, it must also open the door to a new age of transparency, accountability and seriousness of purpose.
Together we can secure the Almighty’s gift of liberty and justice to millions who have not known it. Together we can build a world that is freer, safer and better for the generations who follow.