The United Nations was born in the hope that the world would survive a world war. The founding Members resolved that the peace of the world must never again be destroyed by the will and wickedness of any man.
The United States is joining with the world to supply aid where it reaches people and lifts up lives. As a symbol of our commitment to human dignity, the United States will return to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
The United States will return to the United States Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) The U.S. will participate fully in its mission to advance human rights, tolerance and learning.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: Outlaw groups and regimes have no limit to their violent ambitions. Ban: In cells and camps, terrorists are plotting further                destruction and are building new bases for their war against civilization. Ban's greatest fear is that terrorists will find a shortcut to their mad ambitions.
12 years ago, Iraq invaded Kuwait without provocation. Had Saddam Hussein appeased instead of stopped, he would haveangered the peace and stability of the world. By breaking every pledge, by his deceptions and by his cruelties, Saddam Hussein has made the case against himself.
In 1991, the U.N. Security Council resolution 688 (1991) demanded that the Iraqi regime cease at once the systematicallyrepression of its own people. Last year, the United States Commission on Human Rights found that Iraq continues to commit extremely grave violations of human rights. Tens of thousands of political opponents and ordinary citizens have been subjected to arbitrary arrest, imprisonment, summary execution, and torture by beating, burning, electric shock, starvation, mutilation and rape.
In 1991, the United Nations Security Council demanded that Iraqrenounce all involvement with terrorism. Iraq's regime agreed. It broke this promise. In violation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), Iraq continues to support terrorist organizations. Iraqi dissidents abroad are targeted for murder.
In 1991, the Iraqi regime agreed to stop developing weapons of mass destruction. In 1993, Iraq attempted to assassinate the Emir of Kuwait and a former American President. In 1995, Iraq admitted to producing tens of thousands of anthrax agents.
U.N. inspectors believe Iraq has produced two to four times the amount of biological agents it declared. The regime is rebuilding and expanding facilities capable of producing chemical weapons, they say.
Iraq had a crash nuclearweapons programme prior to the Gulf war. It employs capable nuclearscientists and technicians. It retains physical infrastructure needed to build a nuclear weapon.
Iraq also possesses a force of Scud-type missiles with ranges beyond the 150 kilometres permitted by the United Nations. Work at testing and production facilities shows that Iraq is building more long-range missiles.
In 1991, Iraq promised U.N. inspectors immediate and unrestricted access to verify Iraq'scommitment to rid itself of weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles. Iraq broke its promise, spending seven years deceiving, evading andharassing United Nations inspectors before ceasing cooperation entirely. By refusing to comply with his own agreements, Iraq bears full guilt for the hunger and misery of innocent Iraqi citizens.
It has been almost four years since the last United Nations inspector set foot in Iraq. Saddam Hussein pursued weapons of mass murder even when inspectors were in his country. To suggest otherwise is to hope against the evidence.
The conduct of the Iraqi regime is a threat to the U.N. and to peace. Iraq has answered a decade of United Nations demands with 10 years of defiance. Will the United Nations serve the purpose of its founding, or will it be irrelevant?
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will. immediately and unconditionally forswear, disclose, remove or destroy all weapons of. mass destruction and all related material. The United States helped found the United Nations.
If the Iraqi regime wishes peace, it will immediately end all support for terrorism and act to suppress it. It will release or account for all Gulf war personnel whose fate is still unknown. The Iraqi regime will fully cooperate with international efforts to resolve those issues.
The United States has no quarrel with the Iraqipeople. They have suffered too long in silent captivity. The people of Iraq deserve it. The security of all nations requires it.
The U.S. supports political and economic liberty in a unified Iraq. Saddam Hussein attacked Iran in 1980 and Kuwait in 1990. He has fired ballistic missiles at Iran and Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Israel.
If we fail to act in the face of danger, the people of Iraq will continue to live in brutal submission. The region willremain unstable andisolated from the progress of our times.
If we meet our responsibilities, we can arrive at a very different future. The people of Iraq can shake off their captivity. They can one day join a democratic Afghanistan and a democratic Palestine.
U.S. Representatives to the United Nations have the power to make that stand. By heritage and by choice, the United States of America will make that point.