Mr Secretary-General, distinguished representatives and                guests, it is a great honour for me to address you and tostand in this great Hall. Let me first congratulate you,                Sir, on your election as President of the General Assembly. I come before you as the first American President born after the founding of the United Nations. I pledge to you that my nation remains committed to helpi
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says the world is at a 'moment of miracles' He pledges to help make the U.N.'s vision a reality.
We see Russia’s first popularly elected President, Boris Yeltsin, leading his nation on its bold democratic journey. We have seen decades of deadlock shattered in the Middle East as the Prime Minister of Israel and the Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization shake each other's hands. The super-Powerstandoff that for so long stymied the work of the United Nations has now yielded to a new promise.
From beyond nations, economic and technological forces allover the globe are compelling the world towards integration. At the same time, from within nations, the resurgent aspirations of ethnic and religious groups challenge Governments on terms that traditional nation States cannot easily accommodate. These forces are fuelling a welcome explosion of entrepreneurry and political liberalization. But they also threaten to destroy the insularity and independence of national economies.
We must also recognize that serious threats remain. Bloody ethnic, religious and civil wars rage from Angola to theCaucasus to Kashmir. Hunger and disease continue to take a tragic toll, especially among the world’s children. The malignant neglect of our global environment threatens our future.
Hunger and disease continue to take a tragic toll, especially among the world’s children. The repression of consciousness continues in too many nations. Terrorism, which has taken so many innocent lives, assumed ahorrifying immediacy for us here when militant fanatics bombed the World Trade Center.
When this Organization was founded 48 years ago, the world’s nations stood devastated by war or exhausted by its expense. The momentum of the cold war no longer propels us in our daily actions. Many of us are turning to focus greater attention and energy on domestic needs and problems. But putting each of o t we can and what we should do as a community of nations is what we must do.
With political pressures upon almost                every nation represented in this room, many of us are turning to focus greater attention and energy on domestic needs and problems. But putting each of our economic houses in order cannot mean that we shut our windows to the world. The pursuit of self-renewal in many of the world’s largest and most powerful economies is absolutely crucial.
The U.S. occupies a unique position in world affairs today: we recognize that and we welcome it. But isolationism and protectionism are still poison. We must inspire our peoples to look beyond their immediate fears towards a broader horizon.
Many people ask whether the U.S. plans to retreat or remain active in the world. The United States intends to remain engaged and to lead, Obama says.
For our dream is of a world of thriving democracies that cooperate with each other and live in peace. With this statement, we do not mean to force our way of life on others. But we now know clearly that throughout the world, there is an enormous yearning for democracy.
We will work to strengthen the free market democracies at home, he says. We will support the consolidation of market democracy in Latin America. We seek to distribute the benefits of democracy and economic growth fairly.
We will work to reduce the threat from regimes that are hostile to democracy. As a country that has over 150 racial, ethnic and religious groups within our borders, our policy is rooted in a profound respect for all the world’s cultures.
The U.S. believes that an expanding community of market democracies not only serves our own security interests, it also advances the goals enshrined in this body’s Charter and Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
If we do not stem the proliferation of the world’s deadliest weapons, no democracy can feel secure. If we don’t nurture our people and our planet through sustainable development, we will deepen conflict and waste the very wonders that make our efforts worth doing.
One of our most urgent priorities must be attacking theproliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These are nuclear, chemical or biological weapons that can rain down on populations hundreds of miles away.
I have made non-proliferation one of our nation’s highest priorities. We intend to weave it more deeply into the fabric of all of our relationships with the world's nations and institutions. We seek to build a world of increasing pressure for non- proliferation but increasingly open trade and technology.
Growing global stockpiles of plutonium and highly enriched uranium are raising the danger of nuclearterrorism for all nations. We will press for an international agreement that would ban production of these materials for nuclear weapons for ever. The United States has also begun negotiations towards a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing.
Only a handful of nations has ratified the chemical weapons                Convention. I call on all nations - including my own - to quickly ratify this accord. We will also seek to strengthen the                biological weapons Convention.
We will also reform our own system of export controlsin the United States to reflect the realities of the post-cold-war world. At the same time as we stop deadly technologies from falling into the wrong hands, we will work with our partners to remove outdated controls that unfairly burden legitimate commerce.
The end of the cold war did not bring us to the millennium of peace. It simply removed the lid from many cauldrons of ethnic, religious and territorial animosity. Frequently, the Blue Helmets have worked wonders.
In Somalia, the United States and the United Nations have worked together to achieve a stunning humanitarian rescue. U.N. peace-keepers, against the danger and frustration, have maintained a valiant humanitarian effort.
Cambodia's new Government is a proud accomplishment for the United Nations. Peace-keeping cannot be a substitute for our own national efforts, but it can strongly supplement them.
Just six years ago, about 10,000 United Nations peace-keepers were stationed around the world. Today the United Nations has some 80,000 deployed in 17 operations on four continents.
The U.S. is asking harder questions about proposals for new U.N. peace-keeping missions. The United Nations simply cannot become engaged in every one of the world’s conflicts, he says. If the American people are to say "Yes" to peacekeeping, the United Nations must know when to stop.
The U.S. will be current on its peace-keeping bills within the next few weeks. The U.N. must have the technical means to run a modern, world-class operation. I believe the United States should lead the way in being more financially secure.
The assessment system has not been changed since 1973. I believe our rate should be reduced to reflect the rise of other countries. That will make it easier for me as President to make sure my country pays in a timely and full fashion.
The U.S. has always played a twin role in regard to the United Nations: "First friend and first critic" Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says the time has come to reinvent the U.N. bureaucracy.
The key for reforming the U.N. is to remember why we are here and whom we serve. It is well to recall that the first words of the United Nations Charter are not, "We theGovernments", but "WeThe peoples of the U Nations"
Let us work with new energy to protect the world’s people from torture and repression. As Secretary of StateChristopher stressed at the recent Vienna Conference, human rights are not something conditional, bounded by culture but, rather, something universal, granted by God.
U.S. is working with other nations to build on the promising work of the U.N. Commission on Sustainable Development. We are working to make sure that all nations meet their commitments under the global climate Convention.
30,000 of the world’s children will die of malnutrition and disease every day. One and a half million children have died as a result of wars over the past decade. We are compelled to do better.
We are compelled to do better by the world’s children. We can find new ways to ensure that every child grows up with clean, drinkable water. We cannot afford to see the human race double by the middle of the next century.
We cannot afford to see the human race double by the middle of the next century. We must ensure that there is a place at the table for every one of the world’s children. We can do this.
History has granted to us a moment of even                greater opportunity, when old dangers are ebbing. Future generations will judge us, every                one of us, above all by what we make of this magic moment. Let us resolve that we will dream larger, and work harder.
I believe - I know - that together we can extend this momentof miracles into an age of great works and new wonders.  today.