Every civilized nation here today is resolvedto keep the most basic commitment of civilization. We will defend ourselves and our future against terror and lawless violence. The United Nations was founded in this cause.
The suffering of 11 September was inflicted on people of many faiths and many nations. All of the victims, including Muslims, were killed with equal indifference and satisfaction by the terrorist leaders.
Last week, the Sheikh of Al-Azhar University declared that terrorism is a disease and that Islam prohibits killing innocent civilians. The terrorists call their cause holy, yet they fund it with drug dealing. They encourage murder and suicide in the name of a great faith that that forbids both.
Terrorists kill because they aspire to dominate. They seek to overthrow Governments and to destabilize regions. Few countries meet their exacting standards of brutality and oppression.
Few countries meet the terrorists' standards of brutality and oppression. Every other country is a potential target. They can be expected to use chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. No hint of conscience would prevent it.
The United Nations has risen to this responsibility, he said. He thanked Arab and Islamic countries for condemning terrorist murder. The conspiracies of terror are being isolated by their own hatred and extremism, he added.
The conspiracies of terror are being answered by an expanding global coalition. Not every nation will be part of every action against the enemy. But every nation in our coalition has duties.
Some Governments still turn a blind eye to the                terrorists, hoping the threat will pass them by. For every regime thatsponsors terror there is a price to be paid, and it will be paid.
Women are executed in Kabul’s soccer stadium. Men are jailed for missing prayer meetings. Even before this current crisis, 4 million Afghans depended on food from the U.S.
Before the current crisis, 4 million Afghans depended on food from the United States and other nations. America has airdropped over 1.3 million packages of food and medicine in Afghanistan.
The United States will work closely with the United Nations and development banks to reconstruct Afghanistan after hostilities have ceased. The U.S. will work with the U.N. to support a post-Taliban Government that represents all of the Afghan people.
The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution in 2001 to crack down on terrorist financing. The resolution states that the U.S. has a responsibility to stop the flow of funds to terrorists.
We must unite in opposing all terrorists, not just some of them, he says. No national aspiration, no remembered wrong, can ever justify the deliberate murder of the innocent, he adds.
The war against terror must not serve as an excuse to persecute ethnic and religious minorities inany country. Innocent people must be allowed to live their own lives, under their own religion.
My country is pledged to investing in education and combating AIDS and other infectious diseases. The American Government also stands by itscommitment to a just peace in the Middle East. We will do all in our power tobring both parties back into negotiations.
The steps I have described will not be easy. For some nations, they will require great courage. Yet the cost of inaction is far greater. The only alternative to victory is a nightmare world where every city is a potential killingfield.
As I told the American people, freedom and fear                are at war. We face enemies that hate not our policies, but our existence. But the outcome of thisconflict is certain.
It is our task — the task of this generation — to provide the response to aggression and terror. We know evil is real, but good will prevail against it. This calling is worthy of any life, and worthy of every nation.