The United Nations was founded in the aftermath of the Second World War to protect future generations from the scourge of war. The founders sought to replace a world at war with a world of civilized order.
The founders intended this body to stand for certain values, even if they could not be enforced. This body was to speak with the voice of moral authority. That was to be its greatest power.
In the past year violent conflicts have occurred in the hills around Beirut, the deserts of Chad and the Western Sahara. The weapons of war shatter the security of the peoples who live there, endanger the peace of neighbors.
A nuclear war cannot be won and it must never be fought. Nothing is more in keeping with the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations than arms control.
The United States has already reduced the number of its nuclear weapons worldwide. I believe that to relieve the deep concern of peoples in both Europe and Asia, the time was right, for the first time in history, to resolve a security threat exclusively through arms control.
I still believe the elimination of these weapons is the best, fairest, most practical solution to the problem. Unfortunately, the Soviet Union declined to accept the total elimination of this class of weapons.
The U.S. has not abandoned and will not abandon the search for meaningful arms control agreements. The United States proposed, as an interim solution, some equal number on both sides between one and 572.
The U.S. proposed equal number on both sides between one and 572. The Soviets refused an equitable solution and proposed instead a "half zero option"
The United States is prepared to be more flexible on the content of the current talks. The United States will consider mutually acceptable ways to address the Soviet desire that an agreement should limit aircraft as well as missiles.
The United States seeks and will accept any equitable, verifiable agreement that stabilizes forces at lower levels than currently exist. We are ready to be flexible in our approach—indeed, willing to compromise. We cannot, however, especially in light of recent events, compromise on the n
Reactions to the Korean airliner tragedy are a timely reminder of just how different the Soviets' concept of truth is from that of the rest of the world. Evidence abounds that we cannot simply assume that agreements negotiated with the Soviet Union will be fulfilled. We are ready to be flexible in our approach—indeed, willing to compromise. We cannot, however, compromise on the necessity of effective verification.
Peace cannot be served by pseudo-control of arms. We need reliable, reciprocal reductions. The time has come for the Soviet Union to show proof that it wants arms control in reality, not just in rhetoric.
The time has come for the Soviet Union to show proof that it wants arms control in reality, not just in rhetoric. A fundamental step would be a true non-alignment of the United Nations. This would signal a return to the true values of the Charter.
The emergence of blocs and the polarization of the United Nations undermine all that the Organization initially valued. What harms the Charter harms peace. The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries was founded to promote cooperation between them. Since then, membership in the Movement has grown dramatically, but not all the new members have shared the founders' commitment of genuine non- alignment.
The United States rejects as false and misleading the view of the world as divided between the empires of the East and the West. The United States does not head any bloc of subservient nations, nor do we desire to.
The U.S. is a champion of freedom and self-determination for all peoples. We support the right of all nations to define and pursue their national goals. The United Nations has a proud history of promoting conciliation.
U.N. peace-keeping forces or observers are present in Cyprus, Kashmir, on the Golan Heights and in Lebanon. In Lebanon, we, along with France, Italy and the United Kingdom, have worked for a cease-fire.
We support a policy to disengage the major Powers from third-world conflict. In Central America, as in southern Africa, we are seeking to discourage reliance upon force. The Organization of American States was a pioneer in regional security efforts.
In Africa, organizations such as the Economic Community of West African States are being forged to provide practical structures in the struggle to realize Africa's potential. The United Nations at its best can help us transcend fear and violence.
In recent weeks, the moral outrage of the world seems to have reawakened. Out of the billions of people who inhabit this planet, why, some might ask, should the death of several hundred shake the world so profoundly?
The United Nations and its affiliates have made important contributions to the quality of life on this planet. The problems are old, but it is not too late to commit ourselves to a new beginning.
In 1956 President Dwight Eisenhower made an observation on weapons and deterrence. He wrote: "The era of armaments has ended and the human race must conform its actions to this truth or die"
"The era of armaments has ended and the human race must conform its actions to this truth or die," he said. "Diplomacy, the most honorable of professions, can bring the most blessed of gifts, the gift of peace"
I say it to you with as much hope and heart as I have said it to my own people. You have the right to dream great dreams. A11 of us have the responsibility to work for that better world. As caring peaceful peoples, think what a powerful force for good we could be.