The assertion of national independence has reshaped the political geography of our planet. The unrelenting hostility of the cold war has given way to a more complex relationship between East and West. The simple notion of a bipolar world has become obsolete.
The world economic order is also undergoing inexorable transformations. Economic interdependence has become a daily reality for the citizens of every nation. The next decade will decide whether we have the collective wisdom and the common will to surmount a series of imposing and interrelated problems.
The need to develop new forms of energy will pose a continuing challenge. The food shortage facing developing countries, for example, was 12 million tons in 1975. It could be 70 to 85 million tons by 1990, unless productivity rises sharply.
The East-West relationship can deteriorate dangerously whenever one side fails to respect the security interests of the other. The nations here represented have found it easier, in many different forums, to talk with each other rather than at each other.
East and West have entered into the broadest arms control agenda in history. North and South have made progress on financial, trade and commodity issues. We should recognize such progress and build on it.
I am concerned that there are also factors at work which could reverse this co-operative trend. The severity of the problems we face could drive nations to the pursuit of their own separate advantage at the expense of international co-operation.
We must not react now in frustration, and unleash a spiral of rhetoric which could deepen rather than resolve our divisions. The future of two regions—the Middle East and southern Africa—depends on specific decisions that will be made in the coming months.
It remains the resolute view of my Government that further progress towards an over-all peace is essential. It is our deepest desire that representatives of the Palestinian people and the Governments of Jordan and Syria should join in this great quest.
U.S. commitment to Israel's security and well-being, now and in the future. We need not only a temporary cease-fire, but a broader truce. Lebanon has suffered all too much.
A step towards peace has been taken as well on the Rhodesian conflict. The parties are now engaged in negotiation towards a solution that could combine true majority rule with essential minority rights. We believe the course on which we are embarked is the right one.
The contact group is working with the parties concerned to find ways to resolve the few outstanding issues. We must not let future fears or ambitions undermine the progress that has been made.
The United States strongly supports the basic elements of the draft convention against the taking of hostages. The treaty will contribute to a growing consensus that terrorism will not be tolerated, regardless of the political cause its perpetrators claim to pursue.
The goal of strategic stability will be further served if the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom and the United States are able to agree on a comprehensive ban, on nuclear tests. Developments in recent years can bring new impetus to the non-proliferation effort.
The Second Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to be held next year, will be a critical time for taking stock.
The imprudence of economic nationalism has been harshly demonstrated in the past. The world depression a half-century ago was spread, deepened and prolonged by a wave of protectionism.
All nations will suffer if all nations do not act responsibly in their consumption, of energy, in its pricing and in its production. Despite a difficult prognosis for our energy future, I believe the basis may exist for progress.
President Carter committed the United States not to import more than 8.2 million barrels of oil a day in 1979. Total United States energy research and development this year is $3.2 billion. We are investing $528 million this year and $600 million next year in the development and use of solar energy.
Next month we will establish an Institute for Scientific and Technological Cooperation. The Institute's Policy Council will include experts from developing nations. Energy development will be among its highest priorities.
The Institute's Policy Council will include experts from developing nations. Energy development will be among its highest priorities. We are supporting the expansion of the World Bank's programme for the exploration and development of mineral fuels.
The Inter-American Development Bank is looking at ways to boost energy production in developing countries. The Bank is also considering ways to support the development of solar, small hydroelectric and other technologies.
The question increasingly becomes whether the oil-producing nations are prepared to stabilize prices. A failure to do so will continue to have harsh consequences for the world economy, especially the poorer nations.
We have made progress in the field of human rights, but we must do more. The growing concern for human rights is undeniable. Yet the sad truth is that, even as we sit here toda
UNESCO's Charter was signed three decades ago. Human rights are indispensable to human dignity. Improvements in economic well-being, opportunities for participation in the political process can do much to defuse grievances.
Poor harvests in a number of countries have substantially increased the international demand for food. This situation underscores the need to accumulate adequate stocks to support world food security. I assure Members that the United States will do all it can to prevent a global food crisis.
American harvest this year will be of record size. World Food Council has urged an agreement by mid-1980. Over half of American direct development aid is now devoted to agriculture.
Half the couples of child-bearing age still do not have adequate access to family planning services. We must be prepared to meet emergency needs wherever famine afflicts humanity or refugees seek haven.
Vigorous and large-scale international action is required to bring relief to the starving in Kampuchea. Tens of thousands of sick and hungry Khmer are already pressing on Thailand's border. Hundreds of thousands may soon follow them.
Famine and disease are in prospect, especially in view of recent reports of intensified fighting. International organizations must be able to bring a co-ordinated, massive and adequately monitored programme of emergency relief to all needy Khmer.
The 1980s could portend a prolonged energy crisis. It could be a decade of widespread famine. Unless the swelling deficits of developing countries can be managed, many of their economies may stagnate. Global problems like these require global solutions.
The United States will participate in consultations to decide on the most effective way of conducting such negotiations. The need for co-operation in addressing them requires that we continue to strengthen this institution.
Financial, procedural and management reforms are urgently necessary. We must commit ourselves to finding areas where our interests converge. The United States believes in a world of diversity.
109. ited States believes in a world of diversity. But let us resolve to find in our common needs and common humanity a renewed dedication to the search for common ground.