We admire the way the Government and people of Mexico are dealing with their problem. For our part, we a?9 responding rapidly to Mexico's request for assistance with medicine, blankets and equipment.
When the earth shook there was nothing anyone could do about it. But our task here at the United Nations is to see to it that man does not cause the earth to shake.
The founding fathers of the United Nations are sometimes accused of naive Utopianism. Supposedly they ignored the realities of power politics in attempting to create a global system of collective security. The lofty goals of the Charter have a concrete, practical meaning today.
The striving for justice, freedom, progress and peace is an ever-present and powerful reality. Our political thinking must catch up to this reality. The policies of nations must adapt to this basic human striving.
Since the end of the Second World War, modern communication has opened the eyes of most of the world's peoples to the realization that they do not have to live their lives in poverty and despair. The result has been in recent years a revolution of democratic aspirations sweeping the world.
The old empires eventually had to accept the post-war reality of self-determination. In South Africa, these aspirations on the part of the bLack majority have as never before, drawn global attention and support.
True peace will come only when the Government negotiates with, rather than locks up, representative black leaders. Violence will end only when 311 parties begin a mutual search for a just system of government. The outcome depends on whether and how quickly the South African Government can accept the new reality.
In Central America, El Salvador has shown that democracy can take root and thrive even in the most difficult terrain. Its citizens have braved extremist violence to participate overwhelmingly in four free elections since 1982. Their President's current personal ordeal only serves to underscore the sacrifices thousands of Salvadorians continue to make.
Nicaragua and its Soviet and Cuban allies threaten regional peace. Behind a cloak of democratic rhetoric, the Nicaraguan communists have betrayed the 1979 revolution. Brave Nicaraguans are fighting to restore the hope for freedom in their country.
The Central American nations, together with their nearest neighbors, the members of the Contadora Group, have subscribed to a document of 21 objectives. These include non-interference in the affairs of one's neighbors, serious dialog with domestic opposition groups.
The people of the region are waiting for a positive answer from the rulers of Nicaragua. Can it be that they lack the confidence to face opponents they cannot silence or lock up? The united Nicaraguan opposition deserves to participate in Nicaraguan political life.
The reality of democratic revolution is also demonstrated by the rise of national liberation movements against communist colonialism. Unlike the old European empires that came to accept the post-war reality of self-determination and national independence, the new colonialists are swimming against the tide of history.
The withdrawal of Soviet forces, as the General Assembly has noted on six occasions, would lead to solution of the Afghanistan problem. A solution must also encompass restoration of the country's independence and non-aligned status, self-determination for the Afghan people.
Cambodia, as we all know, stands as one of the worst examples in history of a totalitarian ideology carried to its bloodiest extreme. Today, courageous freedom fighters under the leadership of Prince Norodom Sihanouk and Son Sann struggle to reclaim their country.
Some suffer for their political convictions, others for their religious beliefs. With all the men and arms at their disposal, what are these Governments afraid of?
In the Middle Bast, 10 or 15 years ago, peace between Israel and any Arab State seemed a remote, if not impossible, dream. After untold suffering and four wars, a courageous leader, Anwar El-Sadat, abandoned the old ways of thinking. Peace and normal relations were established, and the Sinai was returned.
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for an end to the conflict in the Middle East. He said: "We have to end the suffering of the people of the region"
On the Korean peninsula we see the first tentative steps being taken to get away from the mode of thinking that has characterized the pa at years. A decade ago, there seemed little hope for a significant reduction of tension. We again call on both parties to negotiate an end to the fighting.
Terrorism is as much a form of war against a nation's interests and values as a full-scale armed attack. It is an affront to everything the United Nations stands for. Progress has been made against the terrorist threat through co-operation.
U.N. Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders adopted a strong, broad-ranging resolution urging all States to adhere to these agreements. 90 potential terrorist actions against United States facilities or citizens have been deterred or prevented.
Despite all the difficulties, let us remember what has been accomplished. After the two most destructive wars in history, the super-Powers, joined with others, have averted world war for four decades. The United States remains committed to all the goals of t
The United States and the Soviet Union have taken practical steps to avoid conflict. The number of States acknowledged to possess nuclear weapons has held at five for the past 20 years.
 progress at Geneva has been slow. We repeatedly have stressed our readiness for give and take and to consider alternative proposals. Each of our proposals has been followed up by further attempts to find common ground.
'The President made this decision to foster a climate of truly mutual restraint to facilitate progress in arms control' 'The most direct path to a safer world is through equitable, verifiable reductions'
Last July, the President issued an unconditional invitation for a Soviet team to observe and measure a nuclear test at the Nevada Test Site. The Soviet Union rejected this offer. Instead, it has continued an unprecedented military build-up. This is eroding the basis on which deterrence has rested for decades.
The strategy of reliance on offensive retaliation to preserve deterrence and prevent war is being called into question by Soviet actions. President Reagan has directed our scientists and engineers to examine, in the light of new technologies, the feasibility of defense against ballistic-missile attack.
We want to co-operate with the Soviet union in making progress on these most important of all issues. Progress requires - it demands - good will, realism and honesty. The current Soviet leaders know that.
The Soviets have the world's most active military space program. They are researching many of the same new technologies as we, and are ahead in some. Their propaganda about American programs is blatantly one-sided.
The United States and the Soviet Union have been at odds over chemical and biological weapons since the 1980s. U.S. President Barack Obama has called for a ban on the use of such weapons in the future.
The United States and the Soviet Union now have a historic opportunity to reduce the risk of war. President Reagan looks forward to his meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev in November.
Command economies have not done very well in liberating people from poverty. They have served as instruments of power for the few rather than of hope for the many. The new way of thinking - economic freedom -actually is a return to old truths.
ASEAN has become a model of regional development and political co-operation. The island nations of the South Pacific have continued to encourage the private sector as well.
In India, China and elsewhere new policies are being adopted to unleash the creative abilities of talented peoples. The road to prosperity begins at the same starting point for all nations: freedom and incentives for the individual.
Drought, without question, is part of the reason, but in some countries there are other, more important reasons. One is Government policies that have severely harmed agricultural productivity. Another problem is lack of appropriate technologies.
Many have undertaken necessary, though painful, adjustment. Austerity is certainly not an end in itself. The purpose of short-term adjustment is to get back on the track of long-term growth. Creative co-operation between borrowers and lenders will be essential.
Trade expansion has been an engine of post-war prosperity. It would be suicidal to return to the protectionism of the 1920s and 1930s. Protectionism is not a cure; it is a disease.
We want open trading, but that means mutuality. Barriers erected against American products are just not acceptable to us. No nation, even one as large and as powerful as the United States, can by itself ensure a free trading system.
U.S. and four of the leading industrial nations pledge firm resolve to work together in addressing the pressing economic issues of this decade. Many imbalances in the world economy remain. These must be corrected by the world community acting in concert if recent economic gains are to be preserved.
I believe we can surmount our problems just as we succeeded in solving the energy crisis and bringing inflation under control. There was a time when those problems too seemed insurmountable. We can succeed again if we have the honesty and courage to face our problems squarely.
The main obstacle to greater realization of the goals of the Charter is the lust of the few for power over the many. The future belongs to societies that can spread knowledge, adapt, innovate, tap the unfettered talents of well-informed citizens.
The future belongs to societies that can spread knowledge, adapt, innovate, tap the unfettered talents of well-informed citizens. The communications revolution will be a truly liberating revolution, for it threatens the monopoly of information and thought upon which tyrants rely for absolute control.