A half-century ago the General Assembly first met in New York, across the river in a converted skating rink. In those modest surroundings predecessors began to put in place an ambitious framework that they hoped would keep the peace.
The U.S. made a commitment to the United Nations Charter 50 years ago, and we are determined to keep our financial obligations. The U.N. is far from a faceless institution; it is an expert who shows people how to raise more rice and more wheat.
The United Nations must change to meet new needs more effectively. The bureaucracy should be smaller, with a clear organizational structure and sharp lines of responsibility. The U.N. must direct its limited resources to the world’s highest priorities.
Under-Secretary-General Joe Connor has embarked on an aggressive campaign to improve the United Nations management culture. The United Nations Secretariat has moved in the right direction by submitting a budget that begins to restrain spending.
The United Nations has more than adozen organizations responsible for development, emergency response and statistical reporting. We should downsize the United Nationsregional economic commissions. The United Nations must not tolerate ethical or financialabuses.
The U.N. must not tolerate ethical or financialabuses, and managers should be appointed on the basis of merit. Germany and Japan should become permanent members of the Security Council. We should agree on an equitable scale of peace-keeping assessments that reflects fully today’s economic realities.
The President and I, and our entire Administration, believe it would be reckless to turn away from an organization that helps mobilize the support of other nations. The way forward is clear; we have already seen and studied countless studies and reports. Now the time has come to act on the best proposals.
The United Nations must emerge from the reform process better able to meet its fundamental goals. From Korea to the Persian Gulf to Haiti, the U.N. has provided a helping hand.
The U.N. has shown that peace-keeping has been an enormously useful instrument. The international community and the U.S. must continue to support this process.
The international community and the U.N. must continue to support this process, both diplomatically and economically. The United Nations has never undertaken a mission more difficult than the one in the former Yugoslavia. On 8 September in Geneva, the parties to the conflict accepted the continuation of the Repu.
On 8 September, the parties to the conflict accepted the continuation of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single State within its internationallyrecognized borders. I will be meeting with the Foreign Minister of Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia later today, and urge them — implore them — to maintain the momentum towards peace.
New technologies have brought us closer together, but also made it easier for terrorists, drug dealers and other internationalcriminals to acquire weapons of mass destruction. The collapse of communism has shattered dictatorships, to be sure, but it has also left the political and legal institutions of newly liberated nations even more vulnerable.
Fifty years ago, the United States was the only country capable of making a nuclear bomb. Today many countries have the technology that would enable them to turn a fist-sized chunk of plutonium into a bomb as small as a suitcase.
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons extended for first time. U.S. committed to zero-yield test ban, says Ambassador Dhanapala.
President Yeltsin will host a nuclear safety and security summit in Moscow next spring. The summit should have a very ambitious agenda, including a declaration of principles on nuclear safety.
President Clinton has urged the U.S. Senate to promptly act on its ratification. The world has witnessed the effects of poison gas too many times in this century. The Chemical Weapons Convention will make every nation safer.
The United Nations is also playing an invaluable role in focusing attention on regionalproliferation problems. In Iraq, the UNSCOM and its Chairman, Rolf Ekeus, will continue to uncover horrific details about Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction.
Saddam Hussein has lied about the scope of Iraq's weapons programmes. There should be no easing of the sanctions regime until Iraq complies with all the demands of the Security Council.
The proliferation of weapons worldwide has added a worrisome dimension to another threat we all face: the threat of international terrorism. This year’s sarin gas attack in Tokyo is a grim warning of what can happen when terrorists acquire weapons of mass destruction. The United Nations has supported this effort in many ways.
U.S. s are joining the fight against thoseindividuals and groups that attack civilians for political ends. The Security Council recognized theimportance of countering State-sponsored terrorism by imposing sanctions against Libya for the bombing of Pan                Am 103 and UTA 772.
The United States has taken a leading role in meeting                the international terrorist threat. We have intensified our sanctions against Iran. We are urging our Congress to tightenour immigration and criminal laws to keep terrorists on the run or behind bars.
The threat of crime is a particular menace to young democracies. It weakens confidence in institutions and undermines free-market reform. Every country must take its own measures to combat these criminal threats. The Administration is now completing a review of our approach.
A particularly insidious form of crime and corruption                is money-laundering. All nations should work together to implement the recommendations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) We are providing similar help bilaterally, and through the United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
We are increasingly aware that damage to the environment and unsustainable population growth threaten the security of our nations. Their harmful effects are evident in famines, refugee crises, and ozone depletion. We must carry out the commitments we made last year at the Cairo Conference, as well as the important commitments made at the Rio Conference.
In this fiftieth anniversary year we must shape the United Nations agenda as if we were creating the institution anew. We should dedicate our efforts in the United States and elsewhere to turning our global consensus against these threats into concrete and effective action. We must renew and re-energize our efforts at the Cairo Conference, as well as theimportant commitments made at the Rio Conference three years ago.
We must renew and reform the United Nations not for its sake, but for our own. We should dedicate our efforts in the United States and elsewhere to turning our global consensus into concrete and effective action.