U.S. President Barack Obama was elected to the U.N. General Assembly this week. Obama: The world is deeply troubled by tension and uncertainty. Peace is threatened by smouldering regional conflicts.
The inability to reach a consensus on procedures for global negotiations is a pause in the process, not a failure in our objectives. I want to look beyond economic problems to the one condition that is a prerequisite for all material progress: peace.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: Peace is prerequisite for all material progress. Ban: "If we truly care about building a world in which peace and justice prevail"
The United Nations must confront the continuing assault upon Afghanistan. Article 2 prohibits "the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any State"
We must support the principles of non-intervention, self-determination and non-alignment for Afghanistan. We must work for a total withdrawal of Soviet troops and a political settlement. The threat of renewed starvation requires significant further contribution from the international community.
The U.S. is committed to a comprehensive peace in the Middle East and southern Africa. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon: "No achievement could be more important to the future influence"
The U.S. is committed to a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. The current autonomy talks have as their goal arriving at interim arrangements to establish full autonomy for the people of the West Bank and Gaza.
We are committed to finding a solution to the Palestinian problem and permanent security for the State of Israel. Camp David has proved so far, and remains for the future, the most hopeful and productive avenue to peace in the Middle East. Let us remember that differences are rivers to be crossed, not reasons to turn back.
The United States will continue its strong efforts to advance the United Nations plan for Namibia. The Zimbabwe settlement offers hope and a model for peaceful settlements in southern Africa and elsewhere.
The settlement in Zimbabwe can also provide a precedent for peaceful change in South Africa. We will continue to urge the Government of South Africa to abandon the repugnant policy of apartheid. The holding of American hostages in Iran is not an item on the agenda of this Assembly.
The situation in Iran contributes to uncertainty about security and stability in Southwest Asia. The security of Iran itself and the stability of the area depend on a united, strong and independent Iran living at peace with its neighbours.
With a new constitution and governmental structure, the Islamic Republic of Iran can assume its obligations and independent role in this community of nations. With their safe release, repeatedly called for by the Security Council and the International Court of Justice, Iran could end its isolation.
The Iranian Parliament has announced that it will name a commission to deal with the hostage question. We hope that this positive step will bring the Government of Iran closer to a decision on release of hostages.
The United States seeks peace with all nations. Whether it be with Iran or with the Soviet Union, we are eager to reduce tensions and to restore productive relations as soon as their actions allow. The danger it poses to civilized international life is growing.
A period of heightened tension in the world makes this obligation more difficult to fulfil, but also more urgently important. As the President of the United States, Mr. Carter, has affirmed, we shall not interfere in Poland's affairs.
President Carter intends to consult with the leadership of the United States Senate soon after the election with a view to resuming the ratification process as soon as is feasible. We consider it of cardinal importance to ratify SALT II and to move forward with the SALT process.
We are committed to the pursuit of meaningful and equal limitations on theatre nuclear forces in the framework of SALT III negotiations. We are ready to begin talks with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union this week.
The U.S. is committed to achieving mutual and balanced force reductions and limitations to diminish the risks inherent in the massive presence of military forces in central Europe. We support the effort of the newly expanded Committee on Disarmament.
The further spread of nuclear weapons would constitute a serious threat to international peace and security. We firmly support efforts, therefore, to reduce the risk of nuclear proliferation. The Treaty on the Non Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is a cornerstone of those efforts.
The United States welcomes t. ous agreement on the fundamental soundness of the Treaty and the desirability of universal adherence to it. We attach particular importance to the goal of achieving comprehensive, full scope international safeguards coverage.
The United States welcomes the emphasis placed by the Committee on Disarmament on the need for international efforts to determine the facts behind those reports. We believe that an impartial investigation into those reports could most appropriately be launched under the auspices of the United Nations.
The failure of nations to live up to those human rights obligations is a continuing tragedy, made painfully manifest in the waves of refugees now sweeping across the world. stability of societies that are at peace with themselves because the rights of their citizens are protected and nurtured.
Over the past five years the U.S. has welcomed more than 600,000 refugees. President Carter has made known the intention of the United States to accept an additional 217,000 over the next year. Clearly this is a global problem; it requires a global response.
The refugee resettlement efforts demand our energy and our generosity. We must strengthen the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. This human tragedy can be dealt with only by removing its root causes.
Achieving these ultimate purposes remains a supreme challenge for the United Nations. Making progress towards them must be the work of this thirty fifth session of the General Assembly.
102. l the clouds of tension and discord that darken the world today. We will live up to our obligations to oppose aggression, to build peace, to limit arms, to support human rights and to foster economic justice.