In 1972 alone, the United States and the Soviet Union have undertaken with each other to do their utmost to avoid military confrontations. During the past few years the world has made remarkable advances toward the Charter goal of practicing tolerance.
The United Kingdom, France, the Soviet Union and the United States have agreed on specific provisions to ensure unimpeded movement to and from Berlin by road, rail and waterways. The Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic have opened negotiations on a treaty to normalize their relations.
We are encouraged, too, by calls in both Eastern and Western capitals for a more secure and open Europe. A step toward realizing this goal would be the creation of a more stable military balance in central Europe.
A conference whose over-all effect was to put a stamp of approval upon the rigid divisions of Europe would only prolong the problems of today into yet another generation. nstructively prepared, could play a crucial role.
U.S. President Nixon said to this General Assembly in 1969, our objective is ".. . not only to limit the build-up of strategic arms, but to reverse it" The United States is intensifying its study of all proposals.
The United States believes that a practical step-by-step approach is the best way to achieve genuine progress m disarmament. The U.S. Government remains committed to a substantial program of economic assistance, particularly through regional organizations.
In Viet-Nam the United States has reduced its armed forces from about 550,000 to 35,000. President Nixon has also pledged a major effort to assist both VietNamese States in post-war reconstruction.
The momentum towards a peace settlement must be regained. We believe that the forces favoring a peaceful settlement still have the upper hand. We must, however, recognize that the Munich killings have set off deplorable patterns of action and reaction.
The "no war, no peace" situation which prevails now in the Middle East does not and will not serve the interest of anyone in the area. No settlement imposed from the outside can long endure. Negotiation is not capitulation.
Ambassador Jarring remains available to help the parties negotiate the terms of a peace settlement in accordance with Security Council resolution 242 (1967) The most promising-first step would be proximity talks leading to an interim Suez Canal agreement. It would separate the combatants, restore to Egypt operation of and authority over the Suez canal.
It is encouraging that both sides agree that such an interim agreement would be not an end in itself but rather the first step towards an over-all peace settlement. Such a practical test of peace on the ground would be in the interests of both sides, and the United States remains prepared to assist.
The future of the United Nations depends on national wills, says U.N. Secretary-General. The Charter does not intend the U.S. to be the center of all diplomacy, he says.
The future of this body, the future of the United Nations, depends on national wills. The absence of Japan, for example, is notable in a body designed to engage the responsibilities of world's principal Powers.
We believe in greater recourse to fact-finding commissions, to good offices and to quiet preventive diplomacy. The discussion of the United Nations weaknesses in dealing with political problems has reached its peak just at a time when its contribution to economic development is making great strides.
Of the last three years the per capita growth in production has finally achieved a higher rate in the less developed than in the developed world. Still, there are serious problems of income distribution, high rates of infant mortality, low rates of literacy, serious malnutrition and widespread ill health.
The United Nations can also make a substantial contribution in the fight against drug traffic, particularly heroin traffic. A revised Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs will give the International Narcotics Control Board authority to reduce poppy cultivation and opium production.
Nixon: 'Every Government which wants to move against narcotics can count on our wholehearted support' 'We believe that they must acquire a greater focus and priority in the future'
The United States will continue to support the United Nations. We remain committed to making it stronger and more effective. The United Nations will have an opportunity and an obligation to take action of vital importance to the international community.
Twenty-four years ago the United Nations affirmed that every human being has the right to 'life, liberty, and the security of person'
In Munich 11 Olympic athletes are kidnapped and murdered in a day of horror witnessed throughout the world. In five years 27 diplomats from 11 countries have been kidnapped and three assassinated. In New York, Arab and other missions have been threatened with violence.
The issue is not an issue of war-not war between States, not civil war or revolutionary war. Rather, it is whether millions of air travelers can continue to fly in safety each year. It is whether diplomats can safely carry out their duties.
The issue is whether the vulnerable lines of international communications the airways and the mails, diplomatic discourse and international meetings can continue, without occupation, to bring nations and peoples together. We all recognize that issues such as self-determination must continue to be addressed seriously.
The United States welcomes the initiative the Secretary-General has taken to place this matter on the agenda. Two years ago, before the problem had reached its present dimensions, the General Assembly took the first step, the step that must guide us.
Two years ago, before the problem had reached its present dimensions, the General Assembly took the first step, the step that must guide us now. In the past two years the international community has taken certain steps in the field of hijacking.
The United States urges this Assembly to act, and act at once, to meet this challenge. The draft treaty to prosecute or extradite those who attack or kidnap diplomats or officials of foreign governments or international organizations should be completed.
A nation which provides a safe haven for hijackers should be outlawed. A draft of a treaty to do this has already been considered by a sub-committee of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
A new treaty on the export of international terrorism should be concluded and opened for signature as soon as possible. The United States Government is today circulating the first draft of such a treaty. We urge all governments to give it their earnest consideration.
We are perfectly flexible on the form of the treaty, but we think this is a subject that deserves our earnest attention. Let it prove that the United Nations can meet this test.
"Let it prove that the United Nations can meet this test. Let it show people everywhere that this Organization, here, now, is capable of the concrete action," he said.