I should first like to congratulate the outgoing President, Guido de Marco of Malta, and salute our incoming President, Samir Al-Shihabi of Saudi Arabia. I also want to salute especially Secretary-General Javier Peres de Cuellar, who will step down in just over three months.
There are now 166 members of the United Nations, up from 159 a year ago. New members include the Republic of Korea, Republic of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
Communism held history captive for years. It suppressed ethnic rivalries, nationalist aspirations and old prejudices. As it has dissolved, suspended hatreds have sprung to life. People who for years have been denied their pasts have begun searching for their own identities.
The information revolution has destroyed the weapons of enforced isolation and ignorance. In many parts of the world technology has overwhelmed tyranny. Free markets provide levels of prosperity, growth and happiness that centrally planned economies can never offer.
Free markets provide levels of prosperity, growth and happiness that centrally planned economies can never offer. Growth does more than fill shelves; it permits every person to gain, not at the expense of others. Prosperity encourages people to live as neighbours, not as predators.
Free and open trade offers developing countries means of self-sufficiency and economic dignity. I call upon all members of GATT to redouble their efforts to reach a successful conclusion for the Uruguay Round. I pledge that the United States will do its part.
Coup plotters in the Soviet Union tried to derail the forces of liberty and reform. Most of the nations in this Hall stood with Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin. As democracy flourishes, so does the opportunity for international cooperation.
A year ago, the Soviet Union joined the United States and a host of other nations in defending a tiny country against aggression and opposing Saddam Hussein. For the very first time on a matter of major importance super-Power competition was replaced with international cooperation.
The United Nations has mounted more peace-keeping missions in the last 36 months than during its first 43 years. In Europe and Asia, nationalist passions have flared anew, challenging borders, straining the fabric of international society.
The United Nations has mounted more peace-keeping missions in the last 36 months than during its first 43 years. We should take seriously the Charter's pledge to practise tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbours. United Nations General Assembly resolution 3379 (XXX) mocks this pledge and the principles upon which the United Nations was founded.
Zionism is not a policy; it is the idea that led to the creation of a home for the Jewish people, to the State of Israel. To equate Zionism with the intolerable sin of racism is to twist history and forget the terrible plight of Jews in the Second World War - and indeed throughout history. This body cannot claim to seek peace and at the same time challenge Israel's right to exist.
We must defend the Charter's emphasis on inalienable human rights. Government has failed if citizens cannot speak their mind, if they cannot form political parties freely. Politicians who talk about democracy and freedom but provide neither will feel the sting of public disapproval.
The renewal of history also imposes an obligation to remain vigilant about new threats and old. We must work to prevent the spread of chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them.
We can never say with confidence where the next conflict may arise. It is no longer acceptable to say that one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter. Let us put the law above the crude and cowardly practice of terrorism.
Saddam continues to rebuild his weapons of mass destruction and to subject the Iraqi people to brutal repression. It is the view of the United States that we must keep the United Nations sanctions in place as long as he remains in power.
This is not to say - let me be clear on this point - that we should punish the Iraqi people. Security Council resolution 706 (1991) created a responsible mechanism for sending humanitarian relief to innocent Iraqi citizens. He must put that mechanism to work. This cooperative effort has liberated Kuwait. Now it can lead to a just government in Iraq.
The United Nations can encourage free market development through its international lending and aid institutions. It can, and should, encourage the values upon which the Organization was founded.
U.N. utions of freedom have lain dormant, the United Nations can offer them new life. The United States has no intention of striving for a pax americana. We will not retreat and pull back into isolationism.
The future lies undefined before us, full of promise, littered with peril. We have an opportunity to spare our sons and daughters the sins and errors of the past. Take this challenge seriously.