Hundreds of thousands have already fallen in the bloody conflict between Iran and Iraq. We pray that the Secretary-General proves to be not only a pilgrim but also the architect of a lasting peace.
"True statesmanship requires not merely skill but something greater, something we call vision," Obama says. "I have come here today to map out for you my own vision of the world's future"
Last year in the Philippines, ordinary people rekindled the spirit of democracy and restored the electoral process. A similar miracle - a transition to democracy - is taking place in the Republic of Korea.
In Latin America, too, one can hear the voices of freedom echo from the pea ли and across the plains. It is the song of ordinary people marching, not in uniforms and not in military file, but, rather, one by one in simple, everyday working clothes.
In India and China, freer markets for farmers have led to an explosion in production. In Africa. Governments are rethinking their policies, and where they ate allowing greater economic freedom to farmers, crop production has improved.
Free markets in services and manufacturing as well as agriculture have led to a soaring of growth and standards of living. The nations of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, Japan, Korea and Taiwan have created the true economic miracle of the last two decades.
From Colombia t Turkey to Indonesia, Governments are cutting taxes, reviewing their regulations, and opening opportunities for initiative. In Brazil we have learned that every time the state's penetration in the economy increases, our liberty decreases.
Peru's "underground economy" bypasses crushing taxation and stifling regulation. This "informal economy" is the principal supplier of many goods and services.
Those who advocate statist solutions to development should take note - the free market is the other path to development and the one true path. It works. he poor have become less poor and the nation itself richer. This is my vision - America's vision.
This is my vision - America's vision I recognize that some Governments represented in this Hall have other ideas. To those Governments I would only say that the price of oppression is clear. Your economies will fall farther and farther behind. Your people will become more restless. Is it not better to listen to the people's hopes now, rather than their curses later?
This month marks the beginning of the eighth year of the Iran-Iraq war. The United States will continue to be an active partner in the efforts of the parties to settle their differences.
The United States has made clear its vital interest in the security of the Persian Gulf. The oil reserves there are of strategic importance to the economies of the free world. We do not seek confrontation or trouble with Iran or anyone else.
The increase in out naval presence in the Gulf does not favour one side or the other. It is a response to heightened tensions and followed consultations with our friends in the region. When the tension diminishes, so will our presence.
The United States hopes the Soviets will join the other members of the Security Council in vigorously seeking an end to the conflict. There is no excuse for prolonging a brutal war or propping up a regime whose days are clearly numbered.
The world community must continue to insist on genuine self-determination prompt and full Soviet withdrawal. The attempt may be made to pressure a few countries to change their vote this year, but this body# will vote overwhelmingly as every year before, for Afghan independence and freedom.
I ask the Soviet Union to set a date this year when this withdrawal will begin. We salute the courage of Pakistan and the Pakistani people. They deserve strong support from all of us.
Despite a billion dollars in Soviet-bloc aid last year alone, despite the largest and best equipped army in Central America, you face a popular revolution at home. It is why the democratic resistance is able to operate freely deep in your heartland. I' is only the revolution you promised the people, and that you then betrayed.
The world community will not accept phoney "democratisation" designed to mask the perpetuation of dictatorship. Real democracy depends on the safeguards of an institutional structure that prevents a concentration of power. The temporary relaxation of controls is not democratisation.
You must end your stranglehold on internal political activity. You must hold free and fair national elections. The media must be truly free - not censored or crippled. Exiles must be allowed to return, to minister, to live, to work, and to organize politically.
The quest for peace must serve the cause of freedom. Patient diplomacy can contribute to a world In which both can flourish. We are heartened by new prospects for improvement in East-West relations.
Last week Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze visited Washington for talks with me and with Secretary of State Shultz. We discussed the full range of issues. Including my long-standing efforts to achieve, for the first time, deep reductions in United States and Soviet nuclear arms.
We will continue to pursue the goal of arms reduction, particularly the goal that the General Secretary and I agreed upon: a 50 per cent reduction in our respective strategic nuclear arms. It is a crucial part of our efforts to ensure a safer world and a more stable strategic balance.
We will continue to press the Soviets for more constructive conduct in the settling of regional conflicts. We look for greater freedom for the Soviet peoples within their country/ more people-to-people exchanges.
We hear much about changes in the Soviet Union. We are intensely interested in these changes. We hear the world glasnost which is translated as "openness" in English. Openness is a broad term, it means the free, unfettered flow of information.
The first Secretary-General, Trygve Lie, said of the United Nations: "With the danger of fire, it is only common sense for the neighbours to join in setting up their own fire brigades"
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has called for an end to the use of torture in the fight against terrorism. He also called on the international community to stop using torture as a weapon of war against the Taliban.
The United Nations was built on great dreams and great ideals. Sometimes it has strayed. It is time for it to come home. Dag Hammarskjold: "The end of all political effort must be the well-being of the individual"
In our obsession with antagonisms of the moment, we often forget how much unites all the members of humanity. I occasionally think how quickly our differences worldwide would vanish if we were facing an alien threat from outside this world. What could be more alien to the universal aspirations of our peoples than war and the threat of war?
Two centuries ago, in a hall much smaller than this one, in Philadelphia, Americans met to draft a constitution. In the course of their debates, one of them said that the new Government, if it was to rise high, must be built on the broadest base. And so it was.