U.S. President Barack Obama is to lead the General Assembly for the first time. Obama's father was a leader in the League of Nations. The U.N. community has long known Obama as an able spokesman of his country.
The United Nations was founded twenty-five years ago. The world is unlikely to care much what we say about the past. It will care a great deal what we do about the future.
The most critical international problem today is the same as that which faced the founders of the United Nations: the need to build a reliable framework for peace and security among nations. The United States has sought in the last two years to frame foreign policies which would help to make the international scene less destructively competitive, less strident, more cooperative and orderly.
The most significant of these efforts has been the strategic arms limitation discussions between my country and the Soviet Union. The United States also seeks, through a process of serious negotiation, to ease the tensions that arise from the division of Europe.
Vietnam has made a negotiated peace our highest priority. North VietNam has as yet shown no serious intention to negotiate a solution. We are ready at any time to resume the talks in China.
The legacy of bitterness, hatred and suspicion in the Middle East contains the seeds of even greater tragedy. The United States has made major diplomatic efforts in recent months and weeks to help bring about peace.
U.N. Security Council resolution 242 (1967) stands as a beacon pointing the way to peace. Ambassador Jarring is ready to resume his mission whenever conditions permit.
The United States is prepared to contribute to renewed efforts toward peace in the Middle East. The U.S. delegation has listened, and will continue to listen attentively, to the suggestions of others.
15. thers, with these objectives among others: first, to put United Nations peacekeeping operations on a firmer and more reliable basis; second, to make the United Nations more effective in the peaceful settlement of disputes; third, to promote new steps in the field of disarmament; fourth, to move closer by peaceful means to the goals of decolonization and human equality.
If the twenty-fifth General Assembly were to move forward substantially in these directions, this session would indeed rank as one of the most fruitful in United Nations history.
World opinion will continue to be skeptical, as to whether the Members of the United Nations are really serious about strengthening international peace and security. We would hope that at some point the provisions of the Charter designed for enforcement action can be implemented.
The Assembly's Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations has been laboring for nearly two years at the task of developing peacekeeping guidelines. The United States has put forward concrete proposals for new procedures that would meet the political concerns of all.
The United States will be prepared to join with others in concrete proposals to this effect. The United States welcomes the statement made at Lusaka in the Declaration of the nonaligned countries concerning the United Nations.
Peacekeeping without peaceful settlement is only an expedient, necessary but incomplete and inconclusive. The most potent preventive of conflict is not machinery but the will of disputing parties to show restraint and a spirit of conciliation.
Where the will to settle exists, effective machinery can do much to help. This is true of regional organizations, and it is no less true of the relevant organs of the United Nations, above all the Security Council.
The United States would favor the reactivation of certain machinery for peaceful settlement which has long been dormant. We believe fact-finders should be available to the SecretaryGeneral or other organs of the United Nations, or directly to Member States.
The United States recently joined with others in the Security Council in referring to the Court for its advisory opinion certain aspects of the Namibia situation. The United States has submitted to this General Assembly an agenda item calling for a review of the role of the Court.
Hundreds of innocent individuals engaged in peaceful international travel have been brutally seized as hostages in a conflict in which they were in no way involved. Not only their safety and convenience have been placed in jeopardy but their very lives. The Tokyo Convention, providing for the prompt return of hijacked aircraft passengers and crew, requir.
The Tokyo Convention, providing for the prompt return of hijacked aircraft passengers and crew, requires the broadest international support. The same is true of the draft multilateral convention for the extradition and punishment of hijackers. The United States has submitted new proposals to the ICAO for which I urge your most earnest consideration and support.
The United States Government is unceasingly aware of the worldwide concern and need for an end to the arms race. The U.S. Government will do whatever it can to bring about new agreements on new steps toward the ultimate goal of disarmament.
The United Nations under the Charter has a clear responsibility in this regard. The proposal has been thoroughly studied and fully justified. It deserves a high priority at the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly.
A particular issue of human rights that is of acute concern to my Government, among others, is the protection of the rights of prisoners of war. It is intolerable that the tragedy of armed conflict should be compounded by additional inhumanities in violation of international norms.
Before the Second World War a third of mankind lived in colonial dependencies. Today the proportion is less than 1 per cent. The situation in much of southern Africa is still characterized by the denial of self-determination and racial equality.
My Government continues to observe resolutions in regard to sanctions against the illegal regime in Rhodesia. We have closed our consulate in Salisbury. We shall continue in every peaceful and practicable way to pursue the ends of justice, equality and self determination.
The United States strongly supports the strategy which is before this Assembly [A 17982, para. 16] and intends to participate fully in this common enterprise. President Nixon has made clear our intention: to reverse the downward trend in United States development assistance.
U.S. should encourage donor nations to "untie" their bilateral aid to developing countries from the obligation to import products of the donor country, he says. The United States should create a new United States International Development Institute, he adds.
The United States is pressing for a liberalized system of generalized tariff preferences for products of developing countries. The U.N. Development program has done important pioneering work in development assistance.
Excessive population growth can frustrate all our hopes for peace, justice and progress. With the aid of last year's excellent "capacity study" the program is now preparing to put the necessary reforms into effect. In planning our future contributions to this important program we in the United States will give major weight to the progress actually achieved.
The U.S. has adopted as a national goal the availability within five years of family planning services to every citizen. The care and feeding of such enormous numbers of dependent children could constitute such a burden as to nullify progress in economic development.
The United States is convinced that the vigorous pursuit of family planning policies is an indispensable element in the strategy of development. The U.S. has pledged this year $7.5 million to the recently established United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
The proposals, if carried out, will amount to a new departure in the history of nations. Never in history has the exploitation of resources of such great potential value been placed under the supervision and regulation of an effective international authority.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon calls for international law on the seabed to be updated. He says the world's oceans must be protected from pollution.
The United Nations is in a key position to foster the necessary cooperation so that the needs of the environment, as well as those of development, receive the energetic attention they require.
The United States hopes the Assembly at this session will act to advance those important objectives. eps.51. A newly acute problem which t
51. ty of establishing international air and water quality standards. The United States hopes the Assembly at this session will act to advance those important objectives. The epidemic spread of addiction to dangerous drugs, especially among young people.
The U.S. is meeting now to deal with the whole range of problems involved, from the poppy field through the international syndicate to the needle in the vein. My Government hopes that an adequate action program will emerge from this process.
Nixon: We hope that proposal will be given final approval in the current session. We hope also that the United Nations will seek new ways to encourage able young people to find careers.
In considering applications for membership by very small States, we must make sure that they are not only willing but also able to carry out the Charter's obligations. As the SecretaryGeneral has for years pointed out, many Territories now moving towards independence are too small, either in population or in resources.
The persistence of the United Nations financial deficit undermines confidence in the Organization, threatens its capabilities in many fields and casts a cloud over its future. We hope that he will himself take a lead in such an effort, in which we shall certainly play our part.
We must take more effective measures to ensure that the entire United Nations system is so organized and managed. That will require much better administrative and budgetary coordination and control.
The United States offers these suggestions in the spirit of the twenty-fifth anniversary session. Many other delegations have offered or will offer their proposals in the same spirit. The test of our seriousness and our success will be how much of this agenda of objectives we can begin to carry out.
The SecretaryGeneral has said that we may have only ten years left to cope effectively with the problems of our times. As we enter the Disarmament Decade and the Second Development Decade, let us keep the U.N. open.
We need to cope effectively with the problems of our times before they become so staggering as to be beyond our capacities. As we enter the Disarmament Decade and the Second Development Decade, let us keep that warning foremost in our minds.