The leaders who built the United Nations were not naive. They did not think that this body could eradicate all wars. But in the wake of millions dead and continents in rubble, they understood that humanity could not survive the course it was on. They gave us this institution, believing that it could allow us to resolve conflicts and enforce rules of behaviour.
U.N. has made a difference, from helping to eradicate disease to brokering peace. But like every generation of leaders, we face new and profound challenges. The question is whether we possess the wisdom and courage to meet those challenges.
Five years after the global economy collapsed, jobs are being created and people are once again being lifted out of poverty. But progress is fragile and unequal, and we still have work to do together to assure that our citizens can access the opportunities that they need to thrive.
The U.S. is shifting away from a perpetual war, President Barack Obama says. He says drones are limited to those who pose an imminent threat to the United States. Obama: We are transferring detainees to other countries and trying terrorists in courts of law.
As a result of such work and cooperation, the world is more stable than it was five years ago. But even a glance at today’s headlines  indicates that dangers remain. In Kenya, we have seen terrorists target innocent civilians in a crowded mall. In Pakistan, nearly 100 people were recently killed by suicide bombers outside a church. In Iraq, killings and car bombs continue to be a terrible part of life.
The convulsions in the Middle East and North Africa have laid bare deep divisions within society. Peaceful movements have often been answered by violence from those resisting change. In Syria, peaceful protests against an authoritarian regime were met with slaughter.
The international community has not matched the scale of the challenge in Syria. Aid cannot keep pace with the suffering of the wounded and displaced. Al-Assad’s traditional allies have propped him up.
How should the U.S. respond to conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa? What is the role of the United Nations and international law in meeting cries for justice?
The ban against the use of chemical weapons, even in war, has been agreed to by 98 percent of humanity. It is strengthened by the searing memories of soldiers suffocated in the trenches, Jews slaughtered in gas chambers, Iranians poisoned in the many tens of thousands.
It is an insult to human reason and to the legitimacy of the Security Council to suggest that anyone other than the regime carried out the attack, he says. The U.S., Russia and our allies have reached an agreement to place Syria’s chemical weapons under international control and then destroy them.
The U.N. eached an agreement to place Syria’s chemical weapons under international control and then destroy them. The Syrian Government took a first step by giving an accounting of its stockpiles. There must be a strong Security Council resolution to verify that the Al-Assad regime is keeping its commitments.
I do not believe that military action by those within Syria or by external Powers can achieve a lasting peace. A leader who has slaughtered his own citizens and gassed his own children cannot regain the legitimacy to lead. Russia and Iran must realize that insisting on Al-Assad’s rule will lead directly to an increasingly violent space for extremists to operate in.
We are committed to working this political track, says President Obama. A political settlement cannot be reached without addressing the legitimate fears and concerns of Alawites and other minorities, he adds.
No aid can take the place of a political resolution, but it can help desperate people survive. America has committed over a billion dollars to that effort, and today I can announce that we will be providing an additional $340 million.
The situation in Syria mirrors a contradiction that has persisted in the region for decades. The U.S. is chastised for meddling in the region and accused of having a hand in conspiracies. At the same time, the United States is blamed for failing to do enough to solve the region’s problems.
The United States of America is prepared to use all elements of our power, including military force, to secure our core interests in the region. We will ensure the free flow of energy from the region to the world. The world still depends upon the region’s energy supply and a severe disruption could destabilize the entire global economy.
The U.S. will work to address the root causes of terror, but when it is necessary to defend the United States against terrorist attack, it will take direct action. We reject the development of nuclear weapons that could trigger a nuclear arms race in the region.
Diplomatic efforts will focus on Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Iran has long complained of a history of U.S. interference in their affairs.
U.S. and Iran have been isolated from one another since the Islamic revolution of 1979. Iranians have long complained of a history of U.S interference in their affairs. On the other hand, Americans see an Iranian Government that has declared the United States an enemy. If we can resolve the issue of Iran’s nuclear programme, that can serve as a major step down the road towards a different relationship.
America prefers to resolve its concerns over Iran’s nuclear programme peacefully. We are determined to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. We respect the right of the Iranian people to access peaceful nuclear energy.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry says the world has an abiding interest in making sure that Iran meets its responsibilities in the future. He says he is directing John Kerry to pursue this effort with the Irani government.
I am directing John Kerry to pursue this                 effort with the Iranian Government, in close cooperation with the European Union, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia and China. The roadblocks may prove to be too great, but I                 firmly believe that the diplomatic path must be tested.
The United States will never compromise its commitment to Israel’s security, nor its support for its existence as a Jewish State. The United States remains committed to the belief that the Palestinian people have a right to live in their own sovereign State.
The time is now ripe for the entire international community to get behind peace. Israeli and Palestinian leaders have demonstrated a willingness to take political risks. The State of Israel is here to stay.
President Abbas has put aside efforts to short-cut the pursuit of peace and come to the negotiating table. Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu has released Palestinian prisoners and reaffirmed his commitment to a Palestinian State.
Trade and commerce between Israelis and Arabs could be an engine of growth and opportunity at a time when too many young people in the region areanguishing without work. Let us support Israeli and Palestinian leaders who are prepared to walk the difficult road to peace.
When peaceful transitions began in Tunisia and Egypt, the entire world was filled with hope. The United States, like others, was struck by the speed of transition. The U.S. chose to support those who called for change.
Mohammed Morsi was democratically elected, but proved unwilling or unable to govern in a way that was fully inclusive. The interim Government that replaced him responded to the desires of millions of Egyptians. The U.S. has been attacked by all sides, simultaneously accused of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood and engineering Morsi's removal.
The U.S. recognizes true democracy as requiring a respect for minority rights, the rule of law, freedom of speech and assembly, and a strong civil society. We will continue support in areas such as education that directly benefit the Egyptian people. But we have not proceeded with the delivery of certain  autoimmunemilitary systems.
We reject the notion that those principles are simply Western exports, incompatible with Islam or the Arab world. We believe that they are the birthright of every person. And while we recognize that our influence will at times be limited, we will be engaged in the region for the long haul.
Sectarian tensions continue to surface in places like Iraq, Bahrain and Syria. We understand that such long-standing issues cannot be solved by outsiders; they must be addressed by Muslim communities themselves. We have seen  progressivelygrinding conflicts come to an end before, most recently in Northern Ireland.
The danger for the world is not an America that is too eager to immerse itself in the affairs of other countries. The danger is that the U.S., after a decade of war, may disengage, creating a vacuum of leadership that no other nation is ready to fill. I believe that America must remain engaged, but I also believe that the world  is better for it.
America is exceptional in its willingness to stand up for the people, says President Obama. He says the U.S. has a long way to go before it can be a model for the world.
There will be times when the breakdown of societies is so great and violence against civilians so substantial, that the international community will be called upon to act. While the United Nations was designed to prevent wars between States, increasingly we face the challenge of preventing slaughter within States.
In Mali, we supported both the French and African forces who pushed back Al-Qaida. In East Africa, we are working with partners to bring the Lord’s Resistance Army to an end. And in Libya, when the Security Council provided a mandate to protect civilians, America joined a coalition that took action.
Critics argue that any intervention to protect civilians is doomed to fail. But does anyone truly believe that the situation in Libya would be better if Al-Qadhafi had been allowed to kill, imprison or brutalize his people?
The principle of sovereignty is at the centre of our international order. But sovereignty cannot be a shield for tyrants to commit wanton murder. We need to be mindful that the world is full of unintended consequences.
U.S. President Barack Obama says the international community must take responsibility for the rights of individuals. He says sanctions and diplomacy can't solve all problems, but they can help prevent the worst.
These are extraordinary times with extraordinary opportunities. A child born anywhere on Earth today can do things that were out of reach 60 years ago. I saw this in Africa, where nations moving beyond conflict are now poised to take off.
I see it in the faces of young people everywhere who are eager to join the cause of eradicating extreme poverty, combating climate change, and expanding freedom. That is what is happening in Asia and Africa, it is happening                 in Europe and the Americas. The future that the Middle East and North Africa deserve is one where they can focus on opportunity.
I stood in the small cell where Nelson Mandela endured for decades, cut off from his own people and the world. I know what side of history I want the United States of America to be on. We are ready to meet tomorrow’s challenges with you.
We look to the future not with fear, but with hope. That is why we remain convinced that this community of nations can deliver a more peaceful, prosperous, and just world to the next generation.