Dag Hammarskjold once said that independence, impartiality, objectivity are essential aspects of the attitude of the Secretary-General. Javier Perez de CueBar has already demonstrated his strict adherence to this most exacting standard. In so doing, he has earned the esteem of my Government.
The Meditation Room opened in 1952. The Hall has become more famous for talk than for meditation. The greatest advance in human history was the use of electricity, or the internal combustion engine.
I believe that the greatest advance in human history was the creation of language. It was words that released our ancestors from the prison of the solitary. Words gave us the means to transmit to our children and the future the crowning jewel of human existence: knowledge.
A single man  speaking out is more dangerous than an armored division. o people  better know the meaning of freedom than those who  have been arrested or beaten or imprisoned or  exiled.
President Reagan's approach to foreign policy is grounded squarely on standards drawn from the pragmatic American experience. As de Tocqueville pointed out,  To achieve its objective, America relies on personal interest, and gives full reign to the strength and reason of the individual.
We will start from realism and act from strength, both in power and in purpose. We will stress the indispensable need to generate consent, build agree¬ments and negotiate on key issues. And we will conduct ourselves in the belief that progress is possible.
Reality is not an illusion or a sleight of hand, though many would have us believe  otherwise. The enormous, grinding machinery of Soviet propaganda daily seeks to distort reality,                 to bend truth for its own purposes. Our purpose is to avoid misunderstanding and to create the necessary pre-conditions for change.
The events in Poland, for example, cannot be ignored or explained away. The resistance of the Afghan people is a valiant saga of our times. We demean that valour if we do not recognise its source.
The world's major trading partners are threatened by recession and protectionism. The great alliances that shore up world stability and growth are challenged by new strains. There is no peace of mind at a time when increasing numbers of nations appear willing to launch their armies.
There is no ultimate safety in a nuclear balance of terror constantly contested. There is no peace of mind at a time when increasing numbers of nations appear willing to launch their armies into battle for causes that seem local but have ramifica¬tions for regional and even global harmony. But there is another side to the present reality; it is a reality of hope. We are living in a fantastic time of opportunity.
America's yearning for peace does not lead us to be hesitant in developing our strength, he writes. The only way we can enhance human potential is by preserving freedom and peace, he says.
The strength of the free world imposes restraint and reassures those who would share it. The American people have never accepted weakness, or hesitancy, or abdication.
One American Marine died and several were injured today in a mine explosion at the Beirut airport. Americans today are emphatically united on the neces¬sity of a strong                 defense.
One American Marine died and several were injured in a mine explosion at the Beirut airport. Lebanon deserves the world's help to rebuild a thriving society.
The U.S. can survive an era of economic strife and decay, says President Reagan. But the U. S. must use its technological and productive abilities to build lasting prosperity at home and contribute to a sound economic situation abroad.
A growing and open American. economy will provide new markets for goods and services produced elsewhere, and. new opportunities for foreign invest¬ments. The lure of protectionist trade policies must be resisted everywhere.
The implications of the external debt of many nations must be understood. Immediate debt problems are manageable if we use good sense and avoid destabilizing actions. IMF can provide critical help in any country's efforts to smooth the adjustment process. The new borrowing arrange¬ment proposed by the United States can be crucial to this effort.
The bedrock of America's strength is our moral and spiritual character. America's institutions are those of freedom accessible to every person. The sources of true strength lie deeper than economic or military power.
The U.S. will continue to insist upon fairness, balance and 'truth' in the debate on human rights. The United States is not perfect and we know it, but we have nothing to hide.
The United States will continue to insist upon fairness, balance and truth. We take the debate on human rights seriously. The world has work to do for the realists, pragmatists and free.
America is prepared to go to work on the global agenda, says President Obama. The time of imposed solutions has passed, he says. The task of statesmanship is to mediate between two or several causes, he adds.
The agony of the Middle East now exceeds the ability of news bulletins or speeches to express: it is a searing wound on ourconsciousness. The region is in constant ferment. It is clear to everyone in this Hall that  War follows war.
The region is in constant ferment. War follows war. It is clear to everyone in this Hall that international peace cannot be achieved until this terrible regional conflict is settled. Israel surely holds a pre-eminent place.
Palestinian people will be able to achieve their legitimate rights only in a context which gives Israel what it so clearly has a right to exist, and to exist in peace and security. This most complex of international conflicts cannot be resolved by force.
On 1 September President Reagan challenged the parties to the Arab-Israeli conflict to make a fresh start on the road to peace in the Middle East. The Camp David agreements, resting squarely on Security Council Resolution 242 (1967), remain available to those who accept the challenge.
President Reagan has initiated a comprehensive program for arms reductions. Western allies are seeking substantial reductions in troops of NATO and the Warsaw Pact. To achieve this goal, we have recently introduced a new proposal.
The threat of nuclear proliferation extends to every region in the world. The problems of arms controls cannot be left to the two super-Powers. The U.S. has gone even further, by asking the Soviet Union to agree to an entire category of weapons.
The threat of nuclear weapons extends to every region in the world. The developing nations will not be more prosperous if scarce resources are diverted to nuclear weapons. Vigorous action to strengthen the barriers to aggres¬sion and to resolve disputes peacefully can remove the root of the problem.
The U.S. will work to tighten export controls and strengthen the IAEA, he says. "We will not accept ... attempts to politicize ... vital institutions," he adds. "There is a po. rriers to aggres¬sion"
I am not here to assert, however, that the way is easy, or quick, or that the future is bound to be bright. We should not indulge our fantasies of perfection of unfulfillable plans, or solutions gained by pressure. It is the responsibility of leaders not to feed the growing appetite for easy promises.
It is the responsibility of leaders not to feed the growing appetite for easy promises and grand assurances, he says. Both sides are now at work in a serious, businesslike effort at arms control, he adds.
The Caribbean Basin Initiative establishes the crucial bond between economic development and economic freedom. It can be a model for fair and productive co-operation between economies vastly different in size and character. The way is open to build stability and progress in southern Africa through inde¬pendence.
We must be prepared for trouble, but alwaysoptimistic, he said. The vast bounties of the human mind and imagination can be shared by all the races and nations we represent.