The President of the United Nations has welcomed the General Assembly to New York. He congratulated the Honourable Guido de Marco on his election to the presidency.
The revolution of 1989 swept the world almost with a life of its own, carried by a new breeze of freedom. That breeze has been sustained by a now almost-universal recognition of a simple, fundamental truth: the human spirit cannot be locked up forever.
Not since 1945 have we seen the real possibility of using the United Nations as it was designed - as a centre for international collective security. The changes in the Soviet Union have been critical to the emergence of a stronger United Nations.
The long twilight struggle that for 45 years has divided Europe, our two nations and much of the world has come to an end. United States-Soviet relationship is finally beyond containment and confrontation, and now we seek to fulfil the promise of mutually shared understanding.
Two days from now the world will be watching when the cold war is formally buried in Berlin. The question must be asked not for any one nation, but for the United Nations. Can the collective strength of the world community unite to deter and defeat aggression?
The United Nations Security Council's resolute response to Iraq's unprovoked aggression has been without precedent. The Iraqi regime has yet to face the facts. The annexation of Kuwait will not be permitted to stand.
The world's quarrel is with the dictator who ordered that invasion. The U.N. upports the use of sanctions to compel Iraq's leaders to withdraw immediately and without condition from Kuwait.
The world's key task - now, first and always - must be to demonstrate that aggression will not be tolerated or rewarded. Through the United Nations Security Council, Iraq has been judged - fairly judged - by a jury of its peers, the very nations of the Earth.
Iraq's unprovoked aggression is a throw-back to another era, a dark relic from a dark time. Iraq and its leaders must be held liable for these crimes of abuse and destruction. Thousands of Iraqis have been executed on political and religious grounds.
I promised that the United States would destroy over 88 per cent of its stockpile in the first eight years of a chemical weapons ban treaty. I promised 100 per cent - all of them - in 10 years, if all nations with chemical weapons capabilities signed the treaty. We have stood by those promises. But time is running out. The Gulf crisis proves how important it is to act together.
We must also redouble our efforts to stem the spread of nuclear weapons, biological weapons and the ballistic missiles that can rain destruction upon distant peoples. It is in our hands to leave these dark machines behind, in the dark ages where they belong.
10 years from now, as the fifty-fifth session of the General Assembly begins, you will again find many of us in this Hall. But you will not find us with any less hope or idealism, or any less confidence in the ultimate triumph of mankind. I see a world of open borders, open trade, and - most importantly - open minds.
I see a world touched by a spirit like that of the Olympics: based not on competition that is driven by fear, but sought out of joy and exhilaration. This is precisely why the present aggression in the Gulf is a menace not only to one region's security but to the entire world's vision of our future. It threatens to turn the dream of a new international order into a grim nightmare of anarchy.
This challenge is a test that we cannot afford to fail. It threatens to turn the dream of a new international order into a grim nightmare of anarchy. Success, too, will have lasting consequences.
Last year's session of the General Assembly showed how we can make greater progress towards a more pragmatic and successful United Nations. For the first time, the Security Council is beginning to work as it was designed to work.
Nations is the place to build international support and consensus for meeting the other challenges that we face. Calls for democracy and human rights are being reborn everywhere. They encourage our hopes for a more stable, more peaceful, more prosperous world.
The time has come to structure the role of the United Nations in such efforts more formally. The United States fully supports United Nations membership for the Republic of Korea. We do so without prejudice to the ultimate objective of reunification.
Building on these and other initiatives, we must join together in a new compact - all of us - to bring the United Nations into the twenty-first century. I call today for a major, long-term effort to do this.
The United Nations is now fulfilling its promise as the world's parliament of peace. International peace and security - and international freedom and prosperity - require no less. I congratulate you, I support you, and I wish you Godspeed in the challenges ahead.
The United Nations is now fulfilling its promise as the world's parliament of peace. I congratulate you, I support you, and I wish you Godspeed in the challenges ahead.