The United Nations has provided an international forum for harmonizing conflicting national interests. The Organization has made a significant contribution in such fields as peace-keeping, humanitarian assistance and eradicating disease.
The U.N. has made a significant contribution in such fields as peace-keeping, humanitarian assistance, and eradicating disease. Yet, no one knows better than those in this Hall how the noble ideals have often remained unfulfilled.
When I came before the Assembly last year, an important moment in the pursuit of those purposes had not yet occurred. The leaders of the Soviet Union and the United States were to meet in Geneva. These discussions have now been held. For over 15 hours, the Soviet and American delegations met.
"We acknowledged the deep and abiding differences between our systems of government, our views of history, and the future of mankind" "We resolved to work together for real reductions in nuclear arms, as well as progress in other areas"
A pall has been cast over our relations with the Soviet Union. I refer here to a particularly disturbing example of Soviet transgressions against human rights. An American correspondent in Moscow was made the subject of fabricated accusations and trumped-up charges.
Gennadi Zakharov is an accused spy who should stand trial. Nicholas Daniloff is an innocent hostage who should be released. Misusing the United Nations for the purposes of espionage does a grave disservice to this Organization.
The U.S. has long urged radical, equitable, verifiable reductions in these offensive systems. The Soviet Union's heavy, accurate ICBMs have no counterparts in size or number in any other country.
I am pleased to say that the Soviet Union has now embraced our idea of radical reductions in offensive systems. At the Geneva summit last November, we agreed to intensify work in this area. So we continue to seek a 50 per cent reduction of American and Soviet arsenals.
The ice of the negotiating stalemate could break, if both sides intensify their effort in the new round of Geneva talks. For too long a time, however, the Soviet response has been to downplay the need for offensive reductions.
The U.S. recognizes that both the offensive and defensive sides of the strategic equation must be addressed. I have offered firm and concrete assurances that our strategic defense initiative could never be used to deploy weapons in space that can cause mass destruction on earth.
The United States continues to respect the anti-ballistic missile Treaty. We have told the Soviets that, if we can both agree on radical reductions in strategic offensive weapons, we are prepared to sign an agreement.
Treaty would provide for research, development and testing to determine whether advanced systems of strategic defense are technically feasible. If either side should decide to deploy such a system, they would be obliged to offer a plan for sharing the benefits. This plan would be negotiated over a two-year period.
U.S. remains prepared to talk about how - under what ground rules and process - we and the Soviet Union can do this co-operatively. Such strategic defenses and radical reductions in offensive forces would represent a safer balance.
The U.S. is ready to move forward on ratification of the Threshold Test Ban Treaty and the Treaty on Peaceful Nuclear Explosions. We are prepared to discuss ways to implement a step-by-step parallel program of limiting and ultimately ending nuclear testing.
As we move towards our goal of eliminating nuclear weapons, it is vital that we also address important imbalances in other kinds of weapons. I therefore call upon the Soviet Union to join us in practical, attainable progress in limiting nuclear testing.
The United States and the Soviet Union disagree over the root causes of political tension. But they agree that regional conflicts could escalate into global confrontation. Arms control cannot be divorced from regional political developments.
 Marxist-Leninist regimes wage war as readily against their neighbors as they routinely do against their own people. In Afghanistan, for example, the puppet regime has announced its intention to relocate tens of thousands of people from border areas. Can anyone doubt this will be done in classic communist style - by force?
Talks between the warring parties themselves, without which an end to violence and national reconciliation are impossible. Talks between the united States and the Soviet Union - not to impose solutions but to support peace talks and eventually eliminate the supply of arms. Joint efforts to welcome each country back into the world economy.
With its allies and other nations, the United States has taken steps to counter terrorism directly. Attacks against our citizens or our interests will not go unanswered. We will also do all in our power to help other law-abiding nations.
We will also do all in our power to help other law-abiding nations threatened by terrorist attacks. We recommend to the General Assembly consideration of the Tokyo resolutions. Nations have turned away from centralized management and government controls.
We believe that overcoming hunger and economic stagnation requires policies that encourage Africa's own productivity and initiative. The laws of economic incentives do not discriminate between developed and developing countries. They apply to all equally.
The United States seeks the assistance of all countries represented here in the General Assembly in protecting the practice of free and fair trade. We applaud the success of the meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) trade ministers last week in Uruguay.
In addition to resistance to protectionism, the United States is also seeking to stimulate world economic growth. America's new tax structure will open the way for greater prosperity at home, which will contribute to greater prosperity abroad.
The United States believes that respect for the individual, for the dignity of the human person does not belong in the realm of charity or "humanitarian" causes. The U.S. believes the greatest contribution to world prosperity is the continued advocacy of the magic of the market-place.
Respect for human rights is not social work, it is the first obligation of government. It also is the foundation-stone in any structure of world peace. All through history, it has been the dictatorships and the tyrannies that have surrendered.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has called for an end to tensions between the U.S. and Russia. He says the two countries need to work together on issues such as human rights.
Last year, I called for a fresh start in relations between our two nations. Now more than ever, it is the responsibility of the Soviet Union to take action and demonstrate that they too are continuing the dialog for peace. We only need look around us to see the new technologies that may some day spare future generations.
In the past, when I have called for a "forward strategy for freedom" and predicted the ultimate triumph of democratic rule over totalitarianism, some have accused me of telling people what they want to hear. Yet, to hope is to believe in humanity; and in its future.
Faulkner once said that the last sound heard on earth would be that of the two remaining humans arguing over where to go in the spaceship they had built. In his speech to the Nobel Committee in 1950, Faulkner spoke of the nuclear age. He said: "I believe that man will not merely endure: he will prevail"
"Pity, sacrifice and, yes, that hope which is the glory of our past. And all of these things we find today in our present; we must use them to build our future"