Seventy years after the founding of the United Nations it is worth reflecting on what the members of this body, working together, have helped to achieve. Out of the ashes of the Second World War, the United States has worked with many nations in the Assembly to prevent a third world war.
It is that international order that has underwritten unparalleled advances in human liberty and prosperity. It is that collective endeavour that has brought about diplomatic cooperation among the world’s major Powers and buttressed a global economy.
Today we are seeing the collapse of strongmen and fragile States breeding conflict. Brutal networks of terror have stepped into the vacuum. Technologies that empower individuals are now also exploited by those who spread disinformation. Global capital flows have powered growth and investment, but they have also increased the risk of contagion.
There are those who argue that the ideals enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations are unachievable or out of date. In effect, they are arguing for a return to the rules that applied for most of human history and that predate this institution.
This increasing scepticism of our international order can also be found in the most advanced democracies. We see greater polarization and more frequent gridlock, with movements on the far right and sometimes the left. Most ominously, we see the fears of ordinary people being exploited through appeals to sectarianism, tribalism, racism or anti-Semitism.
The U.S. is not immune to the politics of us versus them, President Obama says. He says the only strength that matters for the United States is bellicose words and military force.
I lead the strongest military that the world has ever known, and I will never hesitate to protect my country or our allies, unilaterally and by force where necessary. But I stand before the Assembly today believing in my core that we, the nations of the world, cannot return to the old ways of conflict and coercion. We cannot look backwards.
In Iraq, the U.S. learned the hard lesson that it cannot by itself impose stability on a foreign land. Unless we work with other nations under the mantle of international norms, principles and law that offers legitimacy to our efforts, we will not succeed.
In today’s world, dictatorships are unstable. The strongmen of today become the spark of revolution tomorrow. Lasting prosperity does not come solely from the ability to access and extract raw materials.
Lasting prosperity does not come solely from the ability to access and extract raw materials. The strength of nations depends on the success of their people.
U.N. was founded because men and women who came before us had the foresight to know that our nations are more secure when we uphold basic laws and norms. Strong nations, above all, have a responsibility to uphold that international order.
U.S., Russia and China worked together to impose sanctions on Iran. The aim was to make sure the country could not obtain a nuclear weapon. The result is a deal that prevents Iran from obtaining such a weapon.
Consider Russia’s annexation of Crimea and further aggression in eastern Ukraine. America has few economic interests in Ukraine, and we recognize the deep and complex history between Russia and Ukraine. But we cannot stand by when the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a nation is flagrantly violated.
The Ukrainian people are more interested than ever in aligning with Europe. Sanctions have led to capital flight, a contracting economy, a fallen rouble and emigration of more educated Russians.
The U.S. does not adjudicate claims in the South China Sea. But like every nation gathered here, we have an interest in upholding the basic principles of freedom of navigation and the free flow of commerce.
I also believe that to move forward in this new era, we have to be strong enough to acknowledge when what we are doing is not working. For 50 years, the United States pursued a Cuba policy that failed to improve the lives of the Cuban people. We changed that.
Cuba will find its success if it pursues cooperation with other nations. The Iranian people have a proud history and are filled with extraordinary potential. But chanting ‘Death to America’ is not the way to go.
The Iranian people have a proud history and are filled with extraordinary potential. chanting “Death to America’ does not create jobs or make Iran more secure. If Iran chooses a different path, that will be good for the security of the region.
The U.S. will join with more than 50 countries to enlist new capabilities to strengthen U.N. peacekeeping. These new capabilities can prevent mass killing and ensure that peace agreements are upheld.
Nowhere is our commitment to international order more tested than in Syria. There is no room to accommodate an apocalyptic cult like the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. We must strengthen our collective capacity to establish security.
I have said before and I will repeat: there is no room to accommodate an apocalyptic cult like the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. The United States makes no apologies for using our military, as part of a broad coalition, to go after them. Lasting stability can take hold only when the people of Syria forge an agreement to live together peacefully.
After so much bloodshed, so much carnage, there cannot be a return to the pre-war status quo. Al-Assad reacted to peaceful protests by escalating repression and killing. He created the environment for the current strife.
U.S. is increasing the number of refugees whom we welcome within our borders. We will continue to be the largest donor of assistance to support those refugees.
In the faces of suffering families, our nation of immigrants sees itself. That is why we will continue to be the largest donor of assistance to support those refugees.
The commitments we have made to the Sustainable Development Goals speak to this truth. I believe that capitalism has been the greatest creator of wealth and opportunity that the world has ever known. But we also know that prosperity is still cruelly out of reach for too many.
We can eradicate extreme poverty and erase barriers to opportunity. We can promote growth through trade that meets a higher standard. The same ingenuity that produced the Industrial Age and the Computer Age allows us to harness.
No country can escape the ravages of climate change. The same ingenuity that produced the Industrial Age allows us to harness the potential of clean energy. There is no stronger sign of leadership than putting future generations first.
I recognize that democracy is going to take different forms in different parts of the world. No person wants to be imprisoned for peaceful worship. No woman should ever be abused with impunity. There should be freedom to peacefully petition those in power without fear of arbitrary laws.
I believe a Government that suppresses peaceful dissent is not showing strength. It is showing weakness and it is showing fear. Leaders who amend constitutions to stay in office only acknowledge that they failed to build a successful country.
I understand that democracy is frustrating. Democracy in the United States is certainly imperfect. At times it can be dysfunctional. But democracy is what allowed us to become the most powerful nation in the world. It is not simply a matter of principle; it is not an abstraction.
When girls can go to school, get a job and pursue unlimited opportunities, that is when a country realizes its full potential. When civil society thrives, communities can solve problems that Governments cannot necessarily solve alone. That is part of democracy.
I believe that what is true for America istrue for virtually all mature democracies. That is no accident. We can be proud of our nations without defining ourselves in opposition to some other group. Our systems are premised on the notion that absolute power will corrupt.
Our people understand this. To believe we can bridge our differences and choose cooperation over conflict is not weakness; that is strength. It is a practical necessity in our interconnected world.
The people of our United Nations are not as different as they have been told. They can be made to fear; they can be taught to hate, but they can also respond to hope. Families leaving everything they have known behind, risking barren deserts and stormy waters just to find shelter, just to save their children.
U.N. tain ideas and principles that are universal. That is what those who shaped the United Nations 70 years ago understood. Let us carry that faith forward into the future, for it is the only way we can ensure that the future will be brighter.