This century has seen war and cataclysm on an unprecedented scale. It has also seen the triumph of the principle of self-determination and national independence.
This century has also seen the triumph of the principle of self-determination and national independence. A truly global community has begun to evolve, and this development is reflected in a multitude of institutions.
No nation or group of nations can achieve its aims by pressure or by confrontation and that the attempt to do so would damage everyone. They agreed to transcend the stereotypes of the past in the search for a co-operative future.
Only in a structure of co-operation can disputes be settled and clashes contained. Social progress, justice and human rights can thrive only in an atmosphere of reduced international tension. It is our duty to avoid empty slogans and endless recrimination.
The U.S. is committed to a global agenda of peace, security, economic well-being and justice. The United States will pursue its own interests in the world.
The United States will pursue the cause of peace with patience and an attitude of conciliation in many spheres. We shall nurture and deepen the ties of co-operation with our friends and allies. And we shall struggle for the realization of fundamental human rights.
We have begun joint efforts to ease inter-national tensions. We have begun close consultations for co-operation in promoting economic and social development. With imagination and dedication, we can make inter-American co-opera.
Alliance relations in the Western Hemisphere have a long history and great promise for the future. We can make inter-American co-operation on the tasks of development an example to and a pillar of the global community.
We recognize that the suspicion and rivalry of a generation will not be swept away with a document or a conference. Real ideological and political differences exist. We shall pursue the relaxation of tensions on the basis of strict reciprocity. We are deeply conscious that we owe it to future generations not to be swayed by momentary passions.
The world is no longer continually shaken by chronic and bitter confrontations. Periodic consultations including those held at the highest level encourage restraint and amplify areas of mutual interest. If they are observed as we insist, the specter of general war will be lifted from our own peoples.
The hostility of decades between our two nations has been replaced by a relationship of mutual respect. We see widening possibilities for practical co-operation as the barriers between East and West in Europe diminish. There can be no more important task before us.
President Ford plans to visit the People's Republic of China later this year. We take seriously the process of normalizing our relationship. It serves the interests of peace and stability in Asia and around the world.
The conclusion of the recent Sinai agreement1 marks a major step forward. It is the first agreement in the long and tragic history of the Arab-Israeli conflict which is not the immediate consequence of hostilities. It could mark a turning-point.
The United States did not help negotiate this agreement in order to put an end to the process of peace, but to give it new impetus. The objective of our policy is not merely to create another temporary truce but to sustain the momentum of negotiations.
The United States is determined to take every feasible step to help promote further practical progress towards final peace. The United States stands ready to participate in any promising initiative towards peace at the request of parties concerned.
The United States seeks no special benefit; we do not attempt to exclude any country. We will cooperate with any nation that is willing to make a contribution. We have no preference for any particular procedure.
97. ordance with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 ( 1973). While we have had important differences with the Soviet Union, our two countries have held parallel views that the situation in the Middle East poses grave dangers. 98. The role of the world Organization remains essential.
The Middle East will continue to be an area of anguish, turmoil, and peril until a just and durable peace is achieved. Such a peace must meet the principal concerns and interests of all in the area.
The yearning for peace surpasses any known for three decades. The suffering of all the peoples of the Middle East cry out for it. The United States promises its full dedication to further progress towards peace.
The status quo on the island must not become permanent; a rapid and equitable solution is essential. The Secretary-General has worked tirelessly and imaginatively under the most difficult circumstances to narrow the differences.
A settlement must preserve the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cyprus. The present dividing lines cannot be permanent. There must be security for all Cypriots. The needs and wishes of the refugees who have been the principal victims must be dealt with speedil.
There must be security for all Cypriots. The needs and wishes of the refugees who have been the principal victims must be dealt with speedily and with compassion.
The United States agrees that 20 years after the end of the Korean war it is timely to terminate the United Nations Command. We have, in fact, sponsored a draft resolution to that effect which is now before you. The United States cannot accept any solution which fails to provide for the continuing validity of the Armistice Agreement.
The United States cannot accept any solution which fails to provide for the continuing validity of the Armistice Agreement. The United States and the Republic of Korea are looking forward to the time when a lasting solution of the Korean problem can be achieved.
The United States supports the dual entry of both South and North Korea into the United Nations without prejudice to their eventual reunification. The United Nations can contribute significantly to the process of peace on the Korean peninsula by supporting a responsible approach.
The United States has followed carefully and with great sympathy the efforts to reach peaceful settlements in southern Africa. The differences between the two communities have been narrowed in the last decade. The United States will support all efforts to bring about a peaceful settlement.
My Government's opposition to South Africa's continuing occupation of Namibia is well known. The United States has consistently conveyed our position on this subject to South South Africa. We will continue to do so. We believe that Namibia should be given the opportunity, within a short time, to express their views.
The Vladivostok accord of last autumn marked a major step towards achieving these goals. The agreement in principle is translated into a treaty, agreed ceilings will be placed on strategic force levels for a 10-year period.
The United States and the Soviet Union have presented to the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament identical drafts of a convention on the prohibition of military or any other hostile use of environmental modification techniques. These are significant steps towards a verifiable comprehensive test ban.
The world faces a paradox with respect to the proliferation of nuclear energy. The cost and eventual scarcity of oil and other fossil fuels will increasingly spread nuclear power around the world in the decades ahead.
The United States has intensified its efforts within the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA ] and with other nations to broaden and strengthen international standards and safeguards. We must ensure the broad availability of peaceful nuclear energy under safe, economical and reliable conditions.
The United States continues to urge the widest possible adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The establishment of regional nuclear fuel-cycle centers would serve energy needs on a commercially sound basis.
We urge that groups of nations begin now to explore this concept. These centers would serve energy needs on a commercially sound basis and encourage regional energy co-operation. Their existence would reduce the incentive for small and inefficient reprocessing facilities.
The United States considers the achievements of the seventh special session a beginning, not an end. As recommended in the final report, we must now move forward in available forums to give reality and content to the objectives on which we have agreed.
The United States has traditionally been an advocate of extending the reach of international law in international affairs. We have offered our help to the victims of disease and natural disaster. There is no longer any dispute that international human rights are on the agenda of international diplomacy.
The United States welcomes the United Nations mandate for a comprehensive treaty governing the use of the oceans and their resources. No international negotiation is more vital for long-term political and economic stability and the prosperity of our globe.
The hijacking of aircraft, the kidnapping and murder of innocent civilian victims for presumed political gain remain a plague on civilized man. The great human rights must be recognized, respected and given reality in the affairs of nations.
Human rights must be cherished regardless of race, sex or religion. There can be no double standard. The organized concern of the world community can be a potent weapon in the war against degradation of human values.
The United States urges this Assembly to adopt the draft Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Being Subjected to Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
This Organization was created in the belief that the universality of the human race can be reflected in international affairs. This Chamber symbolizes the hope that mankind places in the force of nations working together in the common interest.
"Let us fashion together a new world order," says the leader of the Labour Party. "Let us use our strengths and skills for the benefit of all mankind," he adds. "It is possible to fashion a world of peace and prosperity"