The United States believes in these dreams. They offer the best chance of justice and progress for all mankind. It will always be a major objective of our statecraft to make the United Nations an instrument of peace.
The threats to peace are many; suspicions persist; and the price of inaction is great. The Charter embodies American principles. It will always be a major objective of our statecraft to make the United Nations an instrument of peace.
Development is therefore an enduring issue. Short of war itself, no other issue before us will affect more people, for good or ill, than this search. Peace itself cannot be truly secured if the aspirations of mankind to a better life are frustrated.
Life expectancy has increased dramatically even in the poorest countries and infant mortality has been reduced. The necessary synthesis of traditional values and modernization, never easy to achieve, has grown more difficult under the impact of accelerating change.
By the end of the century, the difference between the two cases amounts to some 220 million more absolutely poor people. The poorest developing countries require longterm and generous concessional aid. They also need sound economic policies, particularly in the agricultural sector.
The middle tier developing countries have made significant progress, but still suffer from widespread poverty. They are also acutely vulnerable to any economic downturn, especially in volatile commodity markets, because of their narrow range of exports.
Developing countries must be able to pursue national policies that take advantage of the international opportunities and foster domestic adjustment. These countries also play a key role in helping poorer nations, both directly and as policy models.
 industrialized countries are today suffering from low rates of growth and high rates of inflation. They are trying to increase savings and investment in order to create employment, improve the environment and eliminate pockets of poverty.
Growth which creates resources and employment needed for progress cannot be the task of a single nation. Developed and developing countries together face the challenge of strengthening GATT and the international trading system.
Rising protectionist pressures, restrictive bilateral arrangements, export subsidies and investment policies which distort trade. Unless they are reduced or eliminated the international trading system will be seriously weakened. Such a setback to the world economy would inflict the most suffering on the developing countries.
The United States imports roughly one half of all manufactured goods exported by developing countries. Earnings of developing countries not members of OPEC from exports to the United States amount to some $60 billion more than double the foreign aid.
The United States has long believed in assistance as an effective tool in helping to promote development. We will continue to cooperate with our developing country colleagues to strengthen the Fund.
The United States has long believed in assistance as an effective tool in helping to promote development. Over the last three decades the U.S. has given more than $130 billion in concessional assistance. In 1980 the American people provided $7.1 billion.
Banks' loans for key projects are important catalysts for productive domestic and foreign private investment. As intermediaries they help to mobilize the resources of international capital markets.
A strategy for growth that depends on a massive increase in the transfer of resources from the developed to the developing countries is simply unrealistic. The U.S. is working with other regional States to promote economic progress in the Caribbean area.
The United StatesASEAN Business Council is a model of how our private sectors can work together for mutual benefit. We have a strong interest in the economic health and stability of those nations. Commercial relationships will help us to attain that objective.
Commercial relationships, along with foreign assistance, will help us to attain that objective. The United States Chamber of Commerce and its counterparts in many developing countries have developed particularly good relationships. We are searching for means to work more closely with them.
The U.S. recognizes the need to be sensitive to the diverse character of the societies involved. The individual is the beginning, the key element and the ultimate beneficiary of the development process.
The U.S. can offer what it knows best from its own experience, he says. Foreign investment can supplement indigenous investment and contribute significantly to development, he adds.
The close relationship between security and development cannot be ignored. Scarce resources are squandered in conflict. The United Nations has a key role to play in resolving conflict and promoting international stability.
The United Nations has a key role to play in resolving conflict and promoting international stability. The world's hopes for peace will be jeopardized if "might makes right" becomes the law of nations. The United States will continue to support security and stability as essential to progress.
The United States will continue to support security and stability as essential to progress. We shall also assist the negotiations specified by Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973)
The United States is strongly committed to balanced and verifiable arms control. We are equally committed to the peaceful resolution of regional disputes. The restraint implied by arms control must become a more widespread phenomenon if such agreements are to survive.
Plans could be formulated for the 1982 GATT ministerial meeting with special concerns of growth in mind. A major priority should be to integrate more fully the developing countries into the international trading system.
The United States continues to be the largest donor of food aid and places a paramount emphasis on its bilateral program to help developing countries increase food production. The United Nations Development program and the World Bank have important follow-up responsibilities.
The search for economic progress, social justice and human dignity has been supported by the American people, themselves an example of successful development. For the United States, support of development constitutes a practical imperative.
The United States reaffirmed its willingness to join its partners in exploring all avenues of consultation and cooperation with developing countries. In October President Reagan will go to the meeting in Cancun.
Despite the difficulties of the moment, we should go forward in a spirit of optimism. We have the potential of all the peoples represented in this Hall. Let us go forward together to achieve a new era of growth for all mankind.