Pope John Paul I's death deprives the world of a wise and compassionate leader. The men and women who gathered in San Francisco in 1945 raised their sights above the differences and divisions of the moment.
The U.N. hered in San Francisco in 1945 raised their sights above the differences and divisions of the moment. Today the Members of this body still share that common vision.
The future of each of our nations depends upon the future of all our nations. The coming months will present turning-points of incalculable importance.
The coming months will present turning-points of incalculable importance. Without continued progress, the gains we have already made can be lost.
Economic progress requires a global consensus on the benefits of co-operation among nations. The application of substantial technical and financial resources is necessary. Only common action can be effective. And each must contribute if all are to benefit.
Only common action can be effective. Each must contribute if all are to benefit. Satisfying ba. s will neither feed the hungry nor create new jobs for the unemployed.
We are agreed on the need to work towards the elimination of poverty in all countries. Concessional aid flows have been increased. More attention is being devoted to food production.
We are engaged in serious discussions on a variety of commodity arrangements, including a system of internationally co-ordinated national grain reserves. We must fashion our domestic policies on the basis of global as well as national needs.
Nations must fashion domestic policies on the basis of global as well as national needs. All nations which bear their fair share of responsibility should benefit from a healthy world economy.
The United States strongly supports that forum. At its meeting in May it made progress in identifying some important areas of agreement. Substantive discussions in the Committee had an important impact on the Ministerial Meeting.
The Committee is satisfied that sufficient procedural agreement now exists to resume substantive work in the manner suggested by the Chairman at the end of informal consultations on 6 September [see A[33/34, part two, annex A].
The developing world is no longer on the periphery of world trade. Increasingly, growth in the developing countries is important to the health of the industrial countries. It is tempting for one nation to use trade restrictions to export its economic difficulties.
Despite a deep recession in the early 1970s, we not only avoided the trading wars of the 1930s, but we continued negotiations to liberalize and to improve the world trading system. An agreement will stimulate production, it will provide jobs, and it will help reduce inflation.
Developing countries should have a voice in determining the policies which affect them. We have encouraged their full involvement in the Geneva multilateral trade negotiations. Improved access will not only benefit the industrial countries; it will be even more important to many developing countries.
We believe a soundly designed common fund could play a useful role in alleviating commodity problems. A well-structured fund will provide economic benefits to participating countries. We will co-operate with others to bring the common fund negotiations to a successful conclusion.
All agree that a fund could play a useful role in reducing the over-all financial costs of supporting buffer stocks. A separate "second window" of the common fund, based on voluntary contributions and operating under agreed guidelines, might be an appropriate mechanism.
The U.S. is committed to increasing contributions to both multilateral and bilateral development efforts. The United States believes strongly that a key objective of foreign assistance should be to help meet  needs of their people.
The United States believes strongly that a key objective of foreign assistance should be to help meet basic human needs. We will soon have authority from our Congress for retroactive adjustment of certain aid terms which would permit us to help those most in need.
Four years have now passed since the World Food Conference, where we agreed on measures we must take for the future. Food production is hardly keeping pace with the growth in population. Food deficits in many countries are increasing.
We must not be lulled by good weather and plentiful harvests. Another tragedy is inevitable unless we act now. We intend to maintain our food aid level at a fair share of the target set at World Food Conference.
There must be an expansion of oil and gas production. The World Bank has expanded its lending to help developing countries increase their fossil fuel supplies. The development of nuclear energy will also be central to the future of many countries.
The United States supports the proposed United Nations conference on new and renewable sources of energy. Such a conference could result in a more co-ordinated United Nations energy effort. It could also provide up-to-date information on renewable energy technology.
The United States is willing to contribute to a major global effort to develop new energy resources. We will increase domestic research, which can benefit all nations. We must strive to conclude successfully the negotiations on the law of the sea.
The basis for an equitable solution already exists and is widely accepted. It permits all sides to benefit fully from sea-bed mining. Time is running out for reaching an agreed solution.
We hope that the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development will focus attention on how all countries can contribute their knowledge to global development. It will be particularly important to find ways for developing nations to enhance their capacity to generate, select and apply technology for their own development priorities. We will contribute to the work of the Conference, and we hope to benefit from it.
The rights to food, to shelter, to a decent education, to adequate health are hollow without political and civil freedoms. Dag Hammarskjold described the Declaration as a living document. We have a continuing obligation to keep that document alive in our own nations.
Concern for human rights is more central to international discourse today than ever before. This Assembly should review the activities of the various United Nations human rights institutions. We must resolve in this Assembly to make torture alien to the experience of every nation.
The refugee problem is not confined to any single region. We must do more to offer them sustenance, security and a realistic hope of resettlement or return to their homelands.
The accords achieved at Camp David offer hope that at long last a turning-point has been reached in the Middle East. Much remains to be done in the ensuing stages of negotiations, but a major step has been taken.
Much remains to be done in the ensuing stages of negotiations, but a major step has been taken in resolving the difficult issues. As negotiations are pursued on the basis of the Camp David framework a dynamic process will be set in motion that can profoundly change attitudes.
The Camp David accords state that the negotiated solution must recognize the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. In the West Bank and Gaza, the framework provides that Israeli occupation shall end. This can be achieved within a few months.
The Camp David framework also gives the Palestinians a vital role in shaping their destiny. The Palestinians will participate in the negotiations to set up their self-governing authority, in those to determine the final status of the West Bank and Gaza.
The Camp David accords call for the resolution of the Palestinian problem in all its aspects. This includes the question of admission of Palestinian refugees to the West Bank and Gaza.
The framework provides for the establishment of a committee to decide on the modalities of admission to the West Bank and Gaza of persons displaced in the 1967 war. A solution must reflect the relevant United Nations resolutions relating to the refugees.
We are determined to achieve a fair and justsettlement of the Middle East question in all its parts, andwe hope the Palestinian people will seize this historicopportunity. We urge the other interested parties to join the negotiations without delay.
It is critical that the mandates of United Nations Peace-keeping Forces in the Golan heights and Sinai be renewed this fall. UNIFIL in southern Lebanon has done much to stabilize the situation in that part of the country. Elsewhere in Lebanon confrontation and tensions continue at a high pitch.
President Carter made clear that the U.S. would spare no effort to assist in finding a solution to the Lebanese tragedy. In Namibia the world community faces a fundamentalchallenge, he said.
The prospects for peace in Rhodesia will diminish if violence increases. An opportunity now exists to help the two communities narrow their differences. The United Nations has done a commendable job of nurturing an atmosphere for negotiations.
Nicaragua. We support a renewed effort by Secretary-General Waldheim to help the parties reach an agreement on a sovereign, bicommunal, non-aligned federal Republic of Cyprus. We and several countries in Latin America have offered to assist in the mediation of Nicaragua's internal crisis. We must also seek in this Assembly to strengthen the United Nations peacekeeping capability.
No sin(;k' nation, acting alone, can deal adequately with this serious problem. Collective action is essential. We strongly urge all nations to subscribe to this Statement.
The U.S. is engaged with the Soviet Union and other nations in a broad range of arms control negotiations. We hope that we may conclude an agreement as a result of the second series of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks before the end of this year.
The United States will also work to ensure compliance with the call in the Declaration of Principles and Programme of Action for restraint in the transfer of conventional arms. We are actively discussing with the Soviet Union how our two nations might encourage restraint.
We are encouraged by the new initiatives already being taken to promote restraint on a regional basis in Latin America. We stand ready to support similar efforts by countries in other regions. urage restraint in consistency with the legitimate right to self-defence and international obligations.
The measure of our progress will not be whether we achieve all our goals in this generation, for that will surely not be possible. It is whether we can now summon the will to move forward together.