The members of this body reflect virtually everyculture, ethnicity and geographical region. We are city and country, inland and island, tropical and temperate, developing and industrialized. And yet, in responding to the daunting demands of this new era, we are bound together by the interests we share.
We all want to see the dangers posed by weapons of mass destruction reduced. We all believe the benefits of globalization must be allocated more broadly. We need all hands ondeck, pulling in the same direction.
The international community cannot help any nation that is not striving to help itself. Each Government has an obligation to observe                international norms on human rights, uphold the rule of law, fight corruption and raise awareness about                HIV/AIDS.
The U.N. will succeed only if we raise our expectations of these organizations, he says. No other institution combines a comprehensivemandate with near universal representation and global reach, he adds.
The Internal Oversight Office, which did not exist in 1993, is responsible for tens of millions of dollars of savings. A culture of transparency and results is slowly but surely taking hold.
We must also move ahead rapidly to strengthen U.N. peacekeeping, says U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. "Every dollar wasted is a dollar lost to the fight against poverty and to the achievement of other urgent goals"
Training for peace operations is a legitimate part of every nation's security strategy. It will require the ability to deploy rapidly not only military forces, but also civilian police and experts in law enforcement.
U.N. needs a sustainable and equitable system of financing. Member States must do a better job of making payments on time, he says.
The United Nations needs a firm and reliable financial base. The United States will be pleased to work with members to accomplish this landmark goal. But we must also stand up to the campaign against the United Nations and international law.
Security Council resolution 1284 (1999) provides an effective plan for protecting world security. It would enable Iraq, through compliance with the terms, to achieve an early suspension of sanctions. But Baghdad has flatly refused to accept the resolution.
The Millennium Summit illustrated the U.N. long-standing role as a forum for articulating consensus goals. Today, the United Nations is taking on a wide array of new issues. These include the fight against HIV/AIDS and securing safe water supplies.
The United Nations is also playing an increased role in areas where cold war divisions once held it back. Over the past decade, United Nations entities have contributed much by prosecuting war criminals and promoting democracy.
Some argue that speaking out in defence of human rights constitutes interference in internal affairs. I can only reply that much the same was once said about Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Nelson Mandela and VáclavHavel. The world is not fooled, and we must not besilent.
This past summer in Poland, for the first time, more than 100 nations came together to reaffirm democratic principles. We did this not because democracy alwaysproduces good Governments, for it does not. But we are convinced by the evidence of the old century that the hopes we share for the new will more readily be achieved.
Democracy is the best system yet devised for sowing seeds of economic opportunity. In any country, at any time,dictatorship is an imposition. Democracy is a choice.
I would point to the men and women on the frontlines, from Port-au-Prince to Freetown, and from Kosovo to Kisangani, doing some of the world's hardest work. It is their efforts and sacrifice that truly remind us of the United Nations purpose and of our relationship with one another.
I am grieved by the conflicts that still rage, and                the basic rights and freedoms still denied. I am                frustrated by the gaps that still exist between our ideals and actions. I'm alarmed by the deepening materialDivide that ultimately threatens every nation.
I pledge my cooperation in the months immediately ahead. I promise, as well, to serve the cause of international progress and individual liberty not only for as long as I am in office, but for aslong as I is alive.