U.S. President Barack Obama offers his congratulations to the new president of the U.N. Secretary-General Waldheim. He also pledges the United States' co-operation with the new leader.
Before the end of this century a score of nations could possess nuclear weapons. The ever-growing trade in conventional arms subverts international commerce from a force for peace to a caterer for war.
The power to solve the world's problems no longer lies solely in the hands of a few nations. Power is now widely shared among many nations with different cultures, different histories and different aspirations. The question is whether we will allow our differences to defeat us or if we will work together to realize our common hopes for peace.
The United States intends to play a role in limiting and reducing all armaments, controlling nuclear technology and settling disputes by peaceful means. Peace will not be assured until the weapons of war are finally put away.
The United States purpose is to ensure peace. Peace will not be assured until the weapons of war are finally put away. In Strategic Arms Limitation Talks [SALT], we and the Soviets are within sight of a significant agreement.
The United States is willing to go as far as possible, consistent with our security interests, in limiting and reducing our nuclear weapons. We can also start the crucial process of curbing the relentless march of technological development which makes nuclear weapons ever more difficult to control.
The United States is willing to go as far as possible, consistent with our security interests, in limiting and reducing our nuclear weapons. On a reciprocal basis we are willing now to reduce them by 10 per cent, 20 percent or even 50 per cent.
The U.S. believes that the time has come to end all explosions of nuclear devices, no matter what their claimed justification. The longer-term interest in this instance is to close one more avenue of nuclear competition.
The existence of nuclear weapons in the United States and the Soviet Union is something we cannot undo except by the painstaking process of negotiation. The existence of these weapons does not mean that other nations need to develop their own weapons. Rather it imposes two solemn obligations on the nations which have the capacity to export nuclear fuels and nuclear technologies.
Nations must meet legitimate energy needs and ensure that nothing we export contributes, directly or indirectly, to the production of nuclear explosives. The London suppliers group must conclude its work as it is presently constituted.
Two weeks from now, more than SO supplier and consuming nations will convene in Washington for the Conference on International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. For the next several years experts will work together on every facet of the nuclear fuel cycle.
I believe that there are alternative fuel cycles that can be managed safely on global basis. World-wide military expenditures are. now in the neighborhood of $300 billion a year.
Last year the nations of the world spent more than 60 times as much equipping each soldier as we spent educating each child. The industrialized nations spend the most money, but the rate of growth in military spending is faster in the developing world.
We hope to work with other supplier nations to cut back on the flow of arms. We do not expect this task to be easy or to produce instant results. But we are committed to stop the spiral of the increasing sale of weapons.
We are eager to work with any nation or region in order to decrease the need for more numerous, more deadly and ever more expensive weapons. organizations, will limit their arms imports. We are ready to provide some nations the necessary means for legitimate self-defence.
We are committed to the strengthening of the peace-making capabilities of the United Nations and regional organizations. We are pleased with the level of co-operation we have achieved with the leaders of the nations in the area, as well as with those peoples who are struggling for independence.
We urge South Africa and other nations to support the proposed solution to the problems in Zimbabwe. We urge them to co-operate still more closely in providing for a smooth and prompt transition in Namibia. We are pleased with the level of co-operation we have achieved.
The U.N. Security Council has provided the basis for peace in resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 ( 1973), but negotiations in good faith by all parties is needed to give substance to peace. Peace must include a process in which the bitter divisions o: generations, even centuries- hatreds and suspicions—can be overcome.
Negotiations in good faith will also require acceptance by all sides of the fundamental rights and interest of everyone involved. Security arrangements are crucial to a nation that has fought for its survival in each of the last four decades.
A true and lasting peace in the Middle East must also respect the rights of all the peoples of the area. How these rights are to be defined and implemented is for the interested parties to decide in detailed negotiations, and not for us to dictate.
The major Powers have a special responsibility to act with restraint in areas of the world where they have competing interests. In the Indian Ocean area neither we nor the Soviet Union has a large military presence. Restraint in the area may well begin with a mutual effort to stabilize our presence.
The United States is willing to abide by that principle, as in the case of the recently signed Panama Canal treaties. Once ratified, these treaties can transform the United States-Panama relationship into one that permanently protects the interests and respects the sovereignty of both countries.
U.S. President Barack Obama has pledged not to use nuclear weapons except in self-defence. Obama also called for an end to the build-up of armaments and the trade in them.
U.N. Secretary-General: 'We must share these obligations for our own mutual survival' 'No nation has a monopoly of vision, of creativity or of ideas' 'We can build a global community dedicated to these purposes and to human dignity'
The leadership increasingly is in need of being shared. No nation has a monopoly of vision, of creativity or of ideas. Bringing these together from many nations is our common responsibility. For only in these ways can the idea of a peaceful global community grow.