The United States is confident that you will pursue the ideals of the Charter with the same dedication as your distinguished predecessors. Building a structure of peace-a structure that will stand-requires patience, dedication and realism.
It is appropriate, I think, to take note of the fact that, by any objective standard, the world is a more peaceful place than it was just a few years ago. It means putting aside preconceptions; it means weighing carefully what our real interests are. And it means proceeding with urgency, but without impatience; steadfastly, but not stubbornly.
In recent years we hav made progress in the Middle East, Asia and Europe. But poverty, hunger and disease are nurturing within themselves seeds of further unrest.
In recent years we have seen a new diversification of power and influence among the nations of the world. Nothing could better serve the cause of peace than a further relaxation of tension between our two countries.
The foreseeable future cannot, of course, be expected to bring an end to the differences between the Soviet and United States political systems or to the competition between us. But it can bring important and beneficial changes in our relations.
The Berlin agreement will be a milestone along the road to a more peaceful and co-operative Europe. Pivotal in the portion already agreed to is the firm commitment to unrestricted transit traffic between the Federal Republic of Germany and West Berlin.
The value of this agreement will depend, not on how the obligations have been formulated on paper, but on how they will be carried out on the ground. Truly unhindered movement to and from Berlin would greatly reduce tensions and remove one of Europe's most dangerous flashpoints.
The United States is pursuing the possibilities of negotiation on a mutual and balanced reduction of military forces in Europe. The United States and the Soviet Union announced their intention to achieve agreement on both defensive and offensive strategic arms.
Talks have already produced two valuable agreements, one on preventing nuclear accidents from leading to war and the other on improving "hot line" communications between Washington and Moscow by use of satellites.
The U.S. cow by use of satellites, 20. The Soviet Union has suggested the creation of a periodic world disarmament conference to be established outside the United Nations.
The road to enduring peace is no short cut, passing only through the capitals of the strong. The road to peace must traverse every region where there are human beings who aspire to a better condition of life. We are constant in our support of practical and peaceful means to achieve self-determination and end racial discrimination.
President Nixon and I are moving towards a relation-ship of equal partnership in which rights and responsibilities are shared. We are conscious that such a relationship requires economic growth, greater opportunities for trade, and closer economic co-operation among us.
We are not adopting a policy of economic nationalism. We have not abandoned our efforts to assist developing countries-through trade, through aid and through investment. Our faith in a free and open system of economic relations among States has not diminished.
U.S. President Nixon began over two years ago, unilaterally and at first without response, to improve bilateral relations. U.N. faces a decision on the China question-a decision with major consequences for the United Nations.
The United States wants to see the People's Republic of China come to the Assembly, take its seat, and participate. The Assembly does, however, face a related and momentous issue. It could become the first Assembly in United Nations history to take action to expel a Member.
The United States and 16 other countries have introduced a draft resolution [A/L.633] which would seat the People's Republic of China as a permanent member of the Security Council.
People's Republic of China exercises control over the largest number of people of all the world's Governments. China ratified the Charter in 1945 as an original Member.
The proposal that both China and the Republic of China should be represented in the United Nations should commend itself to Member States of varying national policies. It would assure that the long-prevailing de facto situation in China is reflected in United Nations representation.
The draft resolution advanced by A'bania and others [AjL.630 and Add. 1 ] -is punitive in substance and in intent. It does not seek to deal with facts, but to excoriate and condemn.
The issue, then, before this body is the issue of expulsion. That draft resolution would exacerbate, not harmonize, relations in Asia. It would weaken, not strengthen, the moral and political fiber of this Organization.
It is ironic that, just as the sentiment for universality in the Assembly is growing, many of those who have long extolled it now seek to violate it. eel that the People's Republic of China would refuse to take its seat. Such predictions are hazardous.
As the United Nations becomes a more universal body it will be better able to deal with the lengthening list of global issues confronting it. The cause of peace has been greatly benefited in recent years by greater pragmatism in many capitals.
The Assembly must choose an outstanding successor to our most able and distinguished Secretary-General, UThant, to whose dedication and idealism we all pay a tribute. The Assembly must also arrest the co-accused in reducing the world's armaments.
The Assembly must also arrest the continuing deterioration of the United Nations financial position. The U.S. will be prepared to assist towards an over-all solution.
The events in East Pakistan are internal events with which the Government and people of Pakistan must deal. The flight of refugees into India, the danger of famine, the threat to peace in South Asia-are of grave concern to all nations.
The United States strongly supports the efforts of the United Nations to organize an effective international relief Program. We have made available over $200 million for relief in Pakistan and for emergency assistance for the refugees in India-well over 50 per cent of the total contributions.
Security Council resolution 242 (1967), establishing the principles for a durable peace, was the first major step towards reason after 18 years of belligerency and a fragile, often violated, armistice.
Both sides to the conflict are committed to the fundamental and reciprocal principles to which the Jarring mission is dedicated. Despite those commitments a deep gulf ot suspicion and distrust remains.
An interim Suez Canal agreement is a step towards full and complete implementation of resolution 242 (1967) The U.S. has welcomed the interest of both Egypt and Israel in such an agreement. The United States has undertaken to play a constructive role.
A fair approach should be founded on two basic principles:. That a Suez Canal agreement is merely a step towards complete and full implementation of resolution 242 (1967) within a reasonable period of time, and. That neither side can realistically expect, as part of an interim agreement, complete agreement on the terms and conditions of an over-all settlement.
The ultimate objective, of course, is a permanent end to belligerency, as part of a final, binding peace agreement. But such a commitment is not realizable in the context of an interim agreement. Neither would a cease-fire of short duration be realistic.
The most significant aspect of an interim agreement might prove to be that it established the principle of withdrawal looking to an over-all settlement as a fact rather than as a theory. Both sides must have confidence that the agreement will not be violated.
The reopening and operation of the Suez Canal would require Egyptian personnel east of the Canal. The United States has long held that the Canal should be open to passage for all nations, without discrimination.
An interim agreement would make the next step toward peace less difficult for all the parties to take. It would restore the use of the Suez Canal as a waterway for international shipping.
I submit that the logic for such an agreement is overwhelming. It would produce the first Israeli withdrawal, extend the cease-fire and diminish the risk of major-power involvement.
Peace must be achieved and maintained, not by the decree of a few, but by accommodation among many. Each Government, in upholding its people's particular interests, must also advance the world interest.